 Flutterwave, an Africa-focused US payment company, has announced hiring Gurbhej Dhillon, a former managing director at Goldman Sachs as Chief Technology Officer (CTO). Dhillon will be responsible for the further development of Flutterwave’s innovative technology platform which currently supports integrations with key technology partners like VISA, Mastercard, Discover Card Networks, and customers like Uber, Flywire, Booking.com etc. He will focus on improving the architecture and infrastructure and providing leadership enabling other engineering and product leaders to create the best solutions that support customer business growth. “I look forward to working closely with Gurbhej as we continue to expand rapidly. With the needs of our customers constantly evolving, we remain focused on driving further innovation across the business and continuing to develop our cutting-edge technology platform that simplifies payments and connects the African market with the world,” said Olugbenga ‘GB’ Agboola, Founder and CEO of Flutterwave. Read also: British International Investment injects $20m in Nigerian ‘mobility fintech’, Moove Gurbhej joins at a critical time for Flutterwave, following its recently completed Series D funding round, valuing the company at over $3 billion, and maintaining its rapid expansion. Agboola says Gurbhej will be instrumental in Flutterwave’s further growth. At Marcus by Goldman Sachs, Gurbhej was the CTO and Head of Lending Engineering. He has extensive experience in enterprise application architecture across financial services and consumer businesses. At Marcus, he was responsible for launching platforms to significantly grow businesses while improving customer experience and established strategic partnerships with several Fortune 500 companies. “I am delighted to be joining the Flutterwave team at such an exciting time for the company. As a leading financial technology company in Africa, Flutterwave is well-positioned to capitalise on the global trends in payment digitisation and continue to drive Africa’s digital transformation, creating further opportunities for customers and merchants alike,” Gurbhej said.