 President Muhammadu Buhari, on Tuesday, asked for the support of All Progressives Congress (APC) governors in picking his successor. Buhari made the request while addressing the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF) during a consultative meeting at the Presidential Villa in Abuja on Tuesday. The president’s move, analysts believe, may have to do with the growing influence of state governors who are seen to be almost the sole deciders of affairs in their parties as the 2023 general elections draw closer. The state governors appear to have a stranglehold over the party as is the case with the rival PDP where the governors virtually determined which among the presidential aspirants got the votes of the delegates in their just concluded convention on Sunday. Because the governors are closer to the people and especially the local governments and in the absence of statutory delegates this time, the governors will have a major say on the outcome. Read also: One year to go: Whisper it quietly, but have we survived Buhari?
In APC, the influence of the state governor was tested months ago when the national executive council of the party was elected. It has since emerged that apart from the position of national chairman which the governors conceded to Buhari, most other officers were picked largely on account of the governors’ preferences. Buhari, who is in the final year of his second term, said: ‘In keeping with the established internal policies of the party and as we approach the convention in a few days, I wish to solicit the reciprocity and support of the Governors and other stakeholders in picking my successor, who would fly the flag of our party for election into the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 2023.” He said during the convention, primaries would take place to pick the Presidential flag bearer for the 2023 general elections. “This is a very significant process and its outcome should prove to the world, the positive quality of the APC regarding democratic principles, culture as well as leadership,” he said. According to him, the objective of the ruling APC must be the victory of the party in the 2023 general elections. He said: “I appeal to all of you to allow our interests to converge, our focus to remain on the changing dynamics of our environment, the expectations of our citizens, and the global community. Our choice of a candidate must be someone who would give the Nigerian masses a sense of victory and confidence even before the elections.” Currently, there are 22 governors elected on the platform of the APC. Twelve presidential aspirants were on Monday screened by the party’s Screening Committee led by John Oyegun, former national chairman of the party.