 Bola Tinubu, emerged presidential candidate of the ruling party Wednesday after a night of politicking ahead of the February 2023 general elections. He defeated five other aspirants to pick the party’s ticket the chairman of the organising committee, announced at xyam morning. Tinubu, a former governor of Lagos State and national leader of the APC contested against 22 others at the Ragle Square in the central business district of Abuja. Over half of 2,322 delegates elected from across the country voted for Tinubu after seven APC candidates stepped down for him earlier. Tinubu clinched the ticket with 1,271 votes which put ahead of his closest contender, Rotimi Amaechi, the immediate past transport minister, who polled 316 votes. Results of other aspirants, show that Vice-President, Yemi Osibanjo polled 235 votes, Ahmed Lawan, senate president scored 152 votes, Dave Umahi, governor of Ebonyi State polled 38 votes, Yahaya Bello, governor of Kogi State polled 47 votes,  Ben Ayade,  Cross River state governor scored 37 votes, Ahmed Sani, governor of Zamfara State,  polled 4 votes, Rochas Okorocha, former Imo Governor, Ikeobasi Mokelu, former minister of Information and Tunde Bakare, general overseer of Latter Rain Assembly polled zero votes while there were 13 invalid votes. The primary which was earlier fixed for 29-30 of last month, was shifted after the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), extended the deadline for political parties to submit the names of their candidates from June 3 to 9. More than 25 party chieftains, serving governors, federal lawmakers, business leaders and ministers had purchased the APC presidential form which was sold for a whopping N100 million. While some aspirants bought the forms for themselves, some groups purchased the forms for their preferred aspirants. Ahead of the 2023 general elections, the ruling party’s presidential primary was seen as a make or mar by observers. However, the narrative changed last weekend when the Governors of the APC decided to zone the presidential ticket to Southern Nigeria, a decision which came amid debates in recent times on whose region the party’s presidential ticket should be zone to. There had been pressure from Southern Nigeria that since incumbent President, Muhammadu Buhari hails from Northern Nigeria, there was the need for power rotation to the South after the expiration of the President two terms of eight years in 2023. In recent days, the aspirants and the contending interests had employed all means at their disposal to clinch the presidential ticket. Pundits had predicted that the outcome of the exercise and the way the leadership of the party would manage the process that would produce the candidate, was crucial for the future of the party and its chances in the 2023 general elections. There had been controversies in recent days after President Muhammadu Buhari in a meeting with governors of the APC urged them to back him to choose his successor. The President’s decision came as a shock to APC Governors and party leaders, who did not immediately agree with him. Then came comment by Tinubu in a meeting with Ogun State delegates, that President Buhari would not have won the 2015 presidential election if not for his influence. Tinubu had said that having helped President Buhari to realise his political ambition it was his turn to support him to rule the country. “I have served enough. I do not want to become history. It is my turn to become president. It is a matter of right for me. Bring it on,” Tinubu had said. Read also: Our encounter with destiny (Full Speech of Bola Tinubu) In some quarters, Tinubu’s victory would come as a surprise, because it was anticipated and predicted, considering that among the aspirants he is probably the only one with a large support base, structure and most popular across the country. Also, the APC national leader is seen as having the financial strength to compete with Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the main opposition, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Tinubu a trained accountant, fondly called Asiwaju of Lagos, and Jagaban, was born in Osun State, South West Nigeria. He attended St. John’s Primary School, Aroloya, Lagos and Children’s Home School in Ibadan, Nigeria. He also went to the United States to study at the phenomenal Richard J. Dailey College in Chicago, Illinois at the age of 23. Tinubu’s political career in Nigeria began in 1992, when he joined the Social Democratic Party (SDP), and was also elected as a senator, where he represented Lagos West Senatorial constituency. Tinubu became the chairman of the senate committee on banking, finance, appropriation and currency at the National Assembly. He further became one of the founding members of National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) which was a body that rooted for the winner of the June 12, 1993 election. The group also canvassed for a military to return power to civilian rule. Among Tinubu’s key promises if elected president after next year’s presidential election are; Initiating policy towards fighting poverty, revamping the economy and transforming the country to compete favorably with other oil and gas producing countries in the world. Bola Ahmed Tinubu, fondly called Asiwaju of Lagos, and Jagaban (a title given to him in Borgu kingdom, Niger State) was born in Osun State, South West, Nigeria. He attended St. John’s Primary School, Aroloya, Lagos and Children’s Home School in Ibadan, Nigeria. Tinubu went to the United States to study at the phenomenal Richard J. Dailey College in Chicago, Illinois at the age of 23. He later obtained a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration (Accounting and Management). Tinubu is a Muslim who got married to Oluremi Tinubu, who is the current senator representing Lagos Central Senatorial District. He is blessed with four children namely JideTinubu (now late), Oluwaseyi Tinubu, Folashade Tinubu (Iyaloja general), and Abibat Tinubu. Tinubu started his career when he worked for the renowned American-based organisation, Authur Anderson, Deloitte Haskins and Sells (which is now called Deloitte Haskins and Touche), where he practised auditing and management consultancy services of General Motors and also, he worked for one of the largest communication and utility companies in the United States of America, GTE Service Corporation. He also served at Mobil, United Kingdom. Tinubu returned to Nigeria in 1983, and joined Mobil Oil, Nigeria. He eventually became a senior auditor in Mobil Oil, and retired as the company’s treasurer. Tinubu’s political career in Nigeria began in 1992, when he joined the Social Democratic Party (SDP), and was also elected as a senator in the Federal Republic of Nigeria, where he represented Lagos West Senatorial District. Tinubu became the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking, Finance, Appropriation and Currency at the National Assembly. He further became one of the founding members of National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) which was a body that rooted for the winner of the June 12, 1993 election. He was a protégé of Abraham Adesanya and Ayo Adebanjo, leaders of Alliance for Democracy (AD). He defeated his opponents, Funsho Williams and Wahab Dosunmu. In the 1999 gubernatorial election, he won the position of governor of Lagos State. Tinubu as the governor of Lagos State between 1999 and 2007 made investments in education, initiated new road construction, required to meet the needs of the fast-growing population rate of the state at the time. Just as he won the election in 1999, he was also re-elected as the governor, and his deputy, Femi Pedro in 2003, where he was the only governor in the south west who didn’t fall through to PDP. Tinubu was also very active in the creation of the Action Congress (AC) political party. Tinubu was succeeded by Babatunde Raji Fashola (SAN), who was his Chief of staff. He is currently the national leader for the All Progressives Congress. Tinubu is said to have interest in the popular television station, TVC Nigeria, Lekki Concession Company, Apapa Amusement Park, Maiyegun Land Project, The Nation Newspaper, Renaissance Hotel, Ikeja Shopping Mall, Radio Continental, Alpha Beta Consulting, Royal Gardens Estate, Tejuoso Market (Joint ownership).