 Binance, a global blockchain ecosystem, has announced it is the official sponsor of Canadian singer-songwriter and record producer, The Weeknd’s “After Hours Til Dawn” tour. This concert according to Binance marks the first global concert tour to integrate Web 3.0 technologies for an enhanced fan experience. Binance also disclosed that it has collaborated with HXOUSE, a think-center and community incubator for creative entrepreneurs, to release an exclusive NFT collection for The Weekend’s tour, along with co-branded tour merchandise. Attendees’ virtual ticket stubs can also gain access to commemorative NFTs which will provide unique experiences for fans. “Binance is all about the community, about people, about inclusion. I was impressed by their focus on users and innovative edge,” The Weeknd said. “It made perfect sense to work together and I can’t wait for fans to experience crypto within a creative avenue while supporting a good cause. There are so many possibilities with crypto and I think this is just the beginning.” Read also: How FTX is Bridging the Crypto Knowledge Gap – Juwon “We are excited to be an exclusive crypto partner of The Weeknd’s tour, giving fans and people the ability to interact with crypto in a new avenue,” said Binance Co-Founder Yi He. The co-founder explained that crypto is community-centric with the partnership playing as a symbol, adding that it also empowers local artists as a means of giving back to the society through a mainstream platform. However, as a United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) Global Goodwill Ambassador, The Weeknd launched the XO Humanitarian Fund earlier this year to support WFP’s lifesaving emergency operations in hunger hotspots around the world. To mark the launch of the tour, Binance said it will donate $2 million to the XO Humanitarian Fund, which is administered by World Food Program USA. Additionally, The Weeknd and Binance are creating a specially designed NFT collection and five percent of its sales will be donated to the XO Humanitarian Fund. The Weeknd’s “After Hours Til Dawn” tour will begin July 8, 2022. Binance.US is the official sponsor of The Weeknd’s tour in the U.S. and Binance.com for the global portion of the tour.