 As the All Progressive Congress (APC) begins the process of electing its Presidential candidate, indications have emerged that delegates may resort to voting along ethnic cleavages. This indication is fueled by the crowd’s responses to the announcements of names of each aspirant, as each was greeted by ovations from the ethnic groups to which they belong. Contrary to earlier reports that the contestants had been “ prunned down” to as little as two aspirants, the party announced that all the 23 aspirants screened by the party are eligible to contest for its presidential ticket. The party, while calling the names of the aspirants, announced that each will be given time to address the delegates, where they are expected to reveal their plans and programs for the country. Abdullahi Adamu, the All Progressives Congress (APC) national chairman, in his opening speech, counseled the 23 presidential aspirants on the platform of the party, including Bola Tinubu former Lagos state governor, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi state Emeka Nwajiuba that to accept the outcome of the contest. Adamu, speaking at the ongoing special convention of the ruling party have this indication when he declared that: “the best doesn’t have to get the prize. Adamu said:”Some of us have passed through that stage before. Aspirants must be ready to accept the outcome of the process. He appealed to the various tendencies within the party to be willing to bury their differences and make efforts to galvanize support for whoever emerges.
Adamu said it would be wrong for the stakeholders in the APC to be driven by ethnic or primordial sentiment which it could ultimately regret.
He said: “It isn’t a easy decision,we can’t afford to make our choice out of primordial sentiment, so that we don’t regret it as a party. “The choice we make at this convention must reflect our vision for a greater Nigeria. Our cohesion has never been more important more than now.
“We are committed to win and win big.”
Appraising his two months in office, the former Nasarawa State Governor said his national working committee has embarked on serious healing process and further admonished the party leaders to be willing to relate as one united political family. Read also: Presidency: Tinubu, Osinbajo test strength, causes uproar at APC convention “Let us be honest and fair in our dealings..we should keep our eyes on the ultimate goal which is winning 2023.
“We can do nothing without unity, we can’t go into 2023 without putting our house in order. It doesn’t take rocket science to unite this party.
“I am glad to say the healing process has commenced, things are not falling apart, we are reconciling process.” Adamu so called on party leaders and faithful to unite for its victory at the 2023 general election. Earlier in his remarks, Hope Uzodinma,  governor of Imo state and chairman of convention planning committee urged aspirants to submit to the supremacy of the party. He said: “You’ll agree with me that the number of presidential aspirants shows strength and stability of our party. We must commend all our aspirants for the way and manner they have conducted themselves throughout this period of engagement with our party members.
“We hope this period of brotherhood and fraternity will continue today. The party to my mind is supreme. Let all of us be loyal and submit to the supremacy of our great party.”