 BusinessDay Media limited, West Africa provider of business news and economic intelligences is set to host Lattice, a major telecoms conference. Lattice is centred on the technologies and trends driving the telecom sector. The conference scheduled to be held on Thursday, June 30, 2022 in Lagos, according to the organizers, will focus on the telecommunication industry which is evolving and going through major transformation driven by changes in technology, customer behaviour, regulation and faced by growing competition.
According to the organizers of the event, it is expected to identify ways in which decision-makers in the sector can position their organisations to thrive in the emerging business landscape. Ogho Okiti, managing director at BusinessDay, while speaking about the conference said,”Following the devastating impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, there is no better time to converge and discuss Nigeria’s telecommunications industry’s successes and gains, even as the whole of Africa recovers from the impact.” The telecoms sector contributed 12.61 percent to national GDP in 2021 and after the oil sector, it is the second highest source of tax revenues for the government at all 3 tiers. The sector also benefits from over 53,400 towers; 7,725 kilometers of fibre optic cables in the last five years, and six international submarine cables with a combined capacity of over 20 TB. Read also: ‘Telecom tax’ not in health insurance Act Buhari signed Despite the nominal bandwidth capacity, there are significant infrastructure gaps in local networks causing underutilization. While the telecoms sector benefited from the COVID-19 pandemic, it is vulnerable to the effects of a slowing economy, which has shrunk customer wallets. However, recent trends also show that future growth will come from the digital economy, which involves data, data storage, data privacy and ownership. The price of diesel, which powers a significant number of towers, has experienced a steep rise this year and how players in the sector respond to these developments will determine if it remains the darling of investors in the future. This conference is set to provide insight about measures which stakeholders and players in the industry can take to thrive. Meanwhile, top Nigerian telecoms giants, ISPs, MNOs, CTOs, consultants, Regulators, Telecoms associations, manufacturers/OEM, cable companies, IoT, AI, & Embedded solutions & services, Big data, embassies, Investors, business leaders and other critical stakeholders in the ecosystem of the telecommunications industry are expected to grace the conference and chart the course for the way forward in the Nigerian telecommunication space. Discussions from the conference will serve as an avenue to discuss global industry trends, development and innovation in telecoms, promote trade relationships within the major players in the industry in Nigeria and Africa, review crucial policies and highlight agendas to achieve economic prosperity in this sector and explore emerging opportunities. In addition to the conference, there will be a telecoms exhibition where participating firms can promote their companies, products and services around, so as to facilitate investment and to create awareness of recent innovations in the telecoms sector. The exhibition according to the organizers will feature solutions vendors in 5G technology, IoT, digital transformation, cyber-security, cloud infrastructure, IT and communications hardware. According to them, the conference plans to welcome in-person top decision-makers in the telecoms sector, stakeholders in the IT and communication sector, government functionaries, and business leaders from countries in the sub-Saharan Africa region. Every year, BusinessDay organises over thirty hybrid and digital-only events. They cut across agribusiness, financial services, power, circular economy, talent management, energy, property, investing, virtual assets, payments, regulation, executive leadership, urbanisation, infrastructure, education, foreign investment, and many more. In 2021, more than 500 executives spoke at BusinessDay-hosted events that drew over 150,000 delegates in both online and physical participation.