 Don Etiebet, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has warned that the party might not have valid governorship and presidential candidates if the controversy over delegates list from Akwa Ibom is not addressed. Etiebet who gave warning at a press conference in Abuja said
the party had been foisted with persons who did not win any election, at any congress monitored by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as State Executives in the state. Etiebet argued that the Akwa-Ibom State challenge of using delegates that were not voted for, in line with the extant electoral laws if not addressed, the same delegates may be used for the presidential primaries. He said: “if that happens then the presidential primaries run a risk of not producing a validly nominated candidate in line with the Electoral Laws. This should not happen.
We fail to see what anyone stands to gain should this fate befall our great Party in Akwa Ibom State. “The consequence of such conduct of primaries remains clear that our party in Akwa Ibom State may not be in the position to present any validly nominated candidate in Akwa Ibom state except the issues are redressed immediately.” Etiebet appealed to the leadership of party to intervene and have the situation redressed by directing the conduct of proper governorship primaries in line with Section 84 (1) of the Electoral Act. Read also: APC’s electricity promise falls short “To clear the coast for our Party to decide its fate properly, we decided not to dwell anymore on the issues in the court room of the Court of Appeal and have now decided to withdraw forthwith from participating in further proceedings at the Court of Appeal in respect of Sen. John James Akpanudoedehe’s Appeal. Happily, he has respected our opinion to withdraw the appeal, in the hope that the entire matter be submitted to the Party to review, and address based on the facts and circumstances on ground. “We are all aware that the Panel sent from the National Headquarters of our great Party arrived the Victor Attah International Airport in a Private jet and was received by the Party’s South South Zonal Secretary. Thereafter they rode in convoy in a bus and were to go to the authorized INEC recognized Venue at Sheergrace Arena for the conduct of the gubernatorial primary election where all the accredited delegates had gathered.” “We therefore take this opportunity to appeal to the leadership of our great Party to intervene and have the situation redressed by directing the conduct of proper gubernatorial primaries in line with Section 84 (1) of the Electoral Act immediately before it is too late. “Meanwhile, we call on all our Party faithful to remain calm and keep faith with the Party while we wait for the Party’s intervention,” he stated.