 AppZone, Sub-Saharan Africa’s payment infrastructure company, has appointed Olayiwola Osoba as its new Vice President of Marketing and Corporate Communications. Osoba joins AppZone from Tek Experts where he led Marketing and Corporate Communications across the company’s Africa region. In his new role, Osoba will oversee the marketing, branding, and storytelling efforts at AppZone. Founded in 2008, Appzone, Africa’s Fintech Software Engineering firm has evolved into a payment infrastructure company. Its Layer-1 Blockchain network digitizes Fiat payments and enables the transition to digital currencies while connecting previously excluded financial institutions into an all-inclusive payment ecosystem. In December 2021, Appzone launched ZONE, Africa’s first decentralized payment network which is on a mission to disrupt Africa’s fintech space. Before joining Tek Experts, Osoba led marketing, corporate communications, sales, and partnership efforts for several global and local technology companies. During his time as Andela’s Regional Marketing Manager, he was responsible for the company’s regional marketing operations and brand-building efforts, including end-to-end management of talent supply generation projects, co-marketing activities, and all CSR initiatives in West Africa. Read also: Digital skills, infrastructure will enhance displaced youth’s learning – Experts During his time at Intel, Osoba supported Intel’s PC acceleration project in Africa. The project delivered growth records in the adoption per household in Nigeria, Ghana, and Kenya between 2017 and 2018 and ensured sustainability in an increasingly demanding marketplace. Osoba is passionate about the growth of Africa’s tech ecosystem and spends his time volunteering, supporting and offering free specialized advisory and marketing consulting services to a long list of tech startups in Africa. Osoba holds a bachelor’s degree from Babcock University and an MBA from Quantic School of Business and Technology in Washington DC. Osoba is a member of The Chartered Institute of Marketing, UK, and a member of the Advertising Practitioners Commission of Nigeria. Osoba’s career experience will come in handy with guiding AppZone’s marketing and storytelling goals and executing the strategies that will be key to the success of the company’s transformation.