 The trade mission from Miami-Dade county, Florida, United States of America (USA) has said that Edo State will benefit from the USA-Nigeria bilateral trade relations worth an estimated $3.2bn investment. Jean Monestime, Miami-Dade county commissioner, district 2, Miami, Florida, disclosed this when he led a 40-man delegation to governor Godwin Obaseki at the weekend in Benin City. Monestime said the trade delegation were in Edo on a business development mission to explore investment opportunities in tourism, aviation and cultural sectors that would benefit both Nigeria and the United States. According to him, “We are here to transact business and tell you that we have what you can take advantage of which will be beneficial to the host state of yours and my immediate country, the United States of America. “The United States and Nigeria currently trade more than $3.2 billion. I think that this pie is big enough for Edo State to receive its fair share of trade and commerce with Miami Dade County. Read also: Nigeria’s hope for sustainable environment hangs on deliberate action “I am here with a delegation from Miami Dade to promote our attributes and assets as a global gateway and logistics in transportation. Honourable guests, we are here in Edo on a business development mission. “I have learned a little about the rich culture that you have here. So, we look forward to you bringing your delegation to Miami so that you can basically share with us your thoughts about how you desire to promote this great state and how the exchanges may continue between Miami Dade and the State of Edo. In his remarks, Godwin Obaseki, Edo State governor, thanked the trade delegation, noting that his administration has leveraged on the huge potential present in the state to better the lives of the people. “We are looking inward within ourselves to galvanise opportunities, exchange and look out to our brothers in America. “For us, culture is powerful. Our dream is to make Edo State the culture capital of Africa. Rabat in Morocco is the beginning of the journey, Ghana is the gateway and Nigeria is the destination.