 National Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party ( PDP) has appealed to the party members to support Atiku Abubakar’s candidature, ahead of the 2023 presidential election.
Ayu made the appeal while speaking at the presentation of the Certificate of Return, to the party’s flag bearer, saying, “There were no victors, there were no vanquished, but the party won.”
He added that “Atiku Abubakar is not yet victorious, but has only been produced as our candidate, the candidate of the whole party.” He appealed to party members not to rest on their oars, because according to him, “the journey has just begun.” According to him, “We have only started a journey. We shall end this journey sometime next year. By the first of June next year, we should take over power from this colourless and clueless government that has totally destroyed this country.” Ayu noted that the country has never been as divided as it is today, adding that “Families are divided, communities are divided against each other. There is no trust among ourselves.” He declared that Atiku was a tested and trusted person who is out to reunite the country. He assured that the party’s National Working Committee( NWC) will continue to galvanize support for the candidates to ensure that they are all victorious in their respective endeavours. Read also: Man collapses at PDP Secretariat “He will lead us to rebuild the economy, get rid of bandits and terrorists, re-enforce the armed forces and give us respect in the international community. Today we are a parrier state but in the next 12 months, the whole world will begin to respect Nigeria all over again,” he said. Also speaking after receiving his Certificate of Return, the PDP candidate, Atiku Abubakar commended the party’s NWC, for transforming the party.
“I am honored and humbled to receive this Certificate of Return haven emerged as our party’s candidate in our just concluded special convention. This victory is a victory for all of us, for our party, and for the vast majority of Nigerians suffering under the misrule of the APC. It was a collective effort, and I’m very grateful for everybody’s contributions,” he said. Atiku pleaded with the members to joins hand together and work with him, adding that “We will require the entire PDP family and other supporters and sympathizers. We must pull everyone together. Nobody should be excluded, I beg of you.” He declared that he has already “visited some of those who contested against me, as a way to lead in that effort to unify the party so that we can face our real opponents, defeat them in the elections and begin the process of rescuing and rebuilding this country from the calours and dangerous APC misrule over the past seven years which is there for everyone to see”
“However, we should not take that or their defeat for granted. We must unite and work extremely hard for every single vote in this country. There is so much to do. And there is very little time to waste. So, let’s get to work.”
The event was almost marred by an ugly incident, as an elderly guest fainted and collapsed at the People’s Democratic Party ( PDP), headquarters on Wednesday, venue of the presentation of Certificate of Return.
The man collapsed at the hall that was filled to capacity and was quickly taken away for first aid treatment by party officials at the occasion, Present at the event are Bukola Saraki, a former President of the Senate, as well as other aspirants at the just concluded PDP presidential election convention, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, Tari Oba Olivar and Sam Ohuabunwa. Others include Ifeanyi Okowa, Governor of Delta state, Tom Ikimi, Emeka Ihedioha. The event was also attended by members of the PDP Board of Trustees, Babangida Aliyu, former Niger state Governor, Biodun Olujimi, Ahmed Makarfi, former Governor of Kaduna state, Ndudi Elumelu, the PDP Minority Leader in the House of Representatives and former Adamawa state Governor, Boni Haruna.