 The presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the 2023 general election will emerge in a very few hours as sorting of votes commences. After sorting of the ballots according to each of the 14 aspirants at the ongoing special convention of the party, the winner will be declared. Two agents of each of the aspirant are observing the exercise. The voting which commenced at about 1:45 am ended around 8:00 am this morning. Out of the 23 screened presidential aspirants, only 14 including Bola Tinubu, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Bola Tinubu, former Lagos state governor, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Senate President Ahmad Lawan; Yahaya Bello, governor of Kogi state, Tein Jack-Rich, President/Founder of Belemaoil and Belema Aid Foundation and Tunde Bakare, general overseer of Latter Rain Assembly went into the ballot. Others are, Rochas Okorocha former, Imo governor, Ogbonnaya Onu, former minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Ben Ayade, Cross River state governor; Ikeobasi Mokelu, former minister of Information; Rotimi Amaechi, former minister of transportation, Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi state; Ahmed Yerima, former governor of Zamfara and Emeka Nwajiuba, former minister of state for education. This followed the earlier withdrawal of Godswill Akpabio, former minister of Niger Delta state Affairs; Ibikunle Amosun, former governor of Ogun state; Kayode Fayemi, governor of Ekiti state and Demiji Bankole, former speaker of the House of Representatives have stepped down for the former Lagos governor. Read also: Vote candidate who can give APC victory in 2023 – Buhari Also, Mohammed Abubakar-Badaru, governor of Jigawa state, Ajayi Borofice, deputy senate leader and Uju Kennedy, the only female aspirant withdrew from the race for Tinubu. Ken Nnamani also former, President of the Senate withdrew from the race but did not reveal who he stepped down for. On the other hand, Felix Nicholas, the youngest presidential aspirant on the platform of the APC stepped down for Vice President Yemi Osinbajo who is also vying for the same ticket. BusinessDay observed that Tinubu is leading in first ballot box being counted while Osinbajo, Lawan and Amaechi trailed behind. …details later