 The discussion over presidential candidacy on Tuesday divided northern All Progressives Congress (APC) governors and their southern counterparts, sources told BusinessDay. While President Muhammadu Buhari had asked the governors to let him choose his successor, the governors are scheming to have one of their own get the party’s presidential ticket. President Buhari, at the meeting with the governors on Tuesday, told them that he would want to pick his successor and needed the governors to support him to do so. “In keeping with the established internal policies of the party and as we approach the convention in a few days, therefore, I wish to solicit the reciprocity and support of the governors and other stakeholders in picking my successor, who would fly the flag of our party for election into the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 2023,” he said. BusinessDay learnt that the APC governors, after the parley with the president, met first at the Kebbi State Governor’s Lodge, Abuja and later at the Aso Rock residence of Abdullahi Adamu, the APC national chairman to take a position. It was gathered that at the first meeting, which ended in deadlock, the governors were divided on their choice of a presidential candidate. Sources at the meeting hinted that the governors proposed to nominate two of their colleagues, one each for South and North since Buhari had not narrowed his choice to an individual. “We believe the president has not settled for any particular person and that is why some governors felt the best thing to do was to nominate two of us (one each from the North and South) to the president for consideration,” the source said. However, the sources said many northern governors argued that no southern governor could defeat Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party, and the North should be given preference. The development did not go down well with some southern governors who opposed the position of their northern counterparts – a development that led to the abrupt end of the meeting without consensus. Reacting to the development, Salihu Lukman, APC national vice chairman, North-west, warned that it would be risky for Buhari to choose a successor without inputs from loyal party leaders and members. Lukman, in an open letter to the President, said the issue was sensitive with very high potential to diminish and damage Buhari’s revered status in the country. “Any initiative that potentially took away the rights of party members to elect candidates would potentially mobilise Nigerians against the party and rubbish Mr. President,” he said. Political analysts and politicians have warned that the plan by President Buhari to unilaterally choose his successor is capable of undermining democracy and party supremacy in the country. Pundits, who spoke BusinessDay in separate interviews, wondered why the President was talking as if the party was his personal property, saying such an action would be a disregard to APC members across the country who ought to have a say in who emerges as the party’s candidate. They said his decision to choose the party presidential candidate unilaterally was undemocratic, and an abuse of party supremacy which could lead to implosion in the party ahead of the 2023 general elections. Tope Musowo, a political analyst, said: “I really don’t know why Buhari is changing his mind, because he was not so keen on that, but we should not encourage such. “I know the governors are doing it, but should we now make it a norm? I think his plan is a slap to APC, the other aspirants and it is undemocratic. Does the party belong to him? I hope this does not lead APC into serious imposition ahead of the general election.” Tade Ademola, former Lagos State chairman of Inter-party Advisory Committee, said President Buhari may have been advised wrongly on the issue, saying the plan was contrary to his earlier position not to interfere in who succeeds him. Read also: Why APC governors are failing to agree on consensus candidate for presidency According to him, “I think some people may be advising Buhari wrongly and it is for their selfish interest, just like they have misled him in the last eight years. “It is obvious that his government has failed and it is because of such people around him, people who can’t tell him the true situation of things. How about all the delegates? Let’s see how this plan can take the APC.” Ebenezer Babatope, former minister of transport, described President Buhari’s plan as a gamble that may backfire. “It is a gamble, he is playing with fire, I don’t think it is democratic, how can you subvert the will of all the delegates and impose your decision on the party?” he said. Kunle Okunade, public affairs commentator, warned that President Buhari’s plan to foist his anointed presidential candidate on the APC may lead to more trouble for the APC ahead next year’s election. “Does he think that other aspirants would be happy and work for his candidate? Why not allow for a contest, even if you have someone in mind,” Okunade said.