 There are indications that the South East may have lost out in the battle to produce the running mate to Atiku Abubakar, the Peoples Democratic Party( PDP) Presidential candidate, as committee may have named Nyesom Wike, as his running mate. The Committee on Atiku’s running mate, BusinessDay gathered voted 16 to 3 votes in favour Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and runner up to Atiku in the PDP presidential primary. The committee was earlier given the task to come up with three names for consideration as Atiku Abubakar’s running mate, by the party’s National Chairman, Iyorchia Ayu. BusinessDay gathered from a source close to the committee, that the Committee listed Delta state Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi and Emmanuel Udom of Akwa Ibom state, before finally settling for Governor Wike A source close to the committee, revealed that the committee had to settle for Governor Wike, following his contributions to the development of the party. The National Chairman of the PDP Iyorchia Ayu, while addressing the committee headed by deputy national Chairman, Umaru Damagun, earlier, tasked the committee to come up with Atiku’s running mate for the party’s consideration. BusinessDay gathered that at the end of the meeting, each member “ had to sign the final decision” Ayu had stated that the PDP Presidential candidate wrote the party to come up with their choice of his running mate He disclosed that Atiku who would been at the meeting , was unavoidably absent because he “dashed out” According to him, “ the presidential candidate of our party would have been here but this morning he suddenly dashed somewhere, he apologised and if he comes early, he will join us but we will go ahead with the assignment he has given us. “The candidate wrote to us as the administrative arm of the party on the choice of his running mate. He noted that Atiku ensured that the various organs of the party are well represented in his committee, including members of the national working committee, (NWC) and the governors forum Others include members of the National Assembly and the former governors which are to put forward their candidate “This deliberation will be chaired by my able deputy Umaru Damagun “I wish you a successful deliberation and I hope you come up with a conclusion between tomorrow and Friday. He noted that the “presidential candidate this time has decided to carry everybody along unlike 2019 when he didn’t consult widely in his choice of running mate. Members of the committee include former Senate President, David Mark, House Minority Leader, Ndudi Elumelu, Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, Bauchi State Governor,
Bala Mohammed and Philip Aduda Others include former governor of Niger State, Babagida Aliyu, former governor of Jigawa State, Sule Lamido, former Cross Rivers State Governor, liyel Imoke and former governor of Ondo State, Olusegun Mimiko, Others are the PDP National Secretary, Sam Nwayanu, National Organising Secretary, Umar Bature.