 Ibeabuchi Ananaba is an experienced cartoonist, fashion illustrator, graphic designer and painter. Born in 1976, the artist is called Ibe by his close friends, grew up in Aba, Abia State, Nigeria where he had his primary and secondary education. He graduated in 1999 with a Distinction from Institute of Management and Technology, Enugu, Nigeria where he studied Fine and Applied Arts and majored in Painting. Propelled by a strong passion to provoke thoughts through his creativity, the adventure has taken him through multiple creative phases as a fashion illustrator, graphic designer, cartoonist and painter. Ibe loves to sketch, enjoys jokes and listening to music. His works are privately collected in Nigeria, UK, South Africa and the United States with his major public collection at the National Assembly, Abuja, Nigeria. He has participated in several group and solo art exhibitions both locally and internationally. Also, he is listed in the Smithsonian Institution Libraries Collections. He has critical eyes and social conscience, and uses his creativity as vehicles for advocacy through artistic expression. He has participated in several solo and group exhibitions. One of his popular solo exhibitions was ‘Long-drawn Shadows’ which offered him the opportunity to mull over poignant personal experiences resulting from livelihood in a dysfunctional society. As well, one of his popular group exhibitions was titled ‘Of Music, Migration & Meaning’, where he joined forces with Tony Nsofor to respond creatively to global issues. Both used the exhibition to introduce art enthusiasts to the very heart and pulse of Nigerian creative response to global issues such as migration and the effect of social media on interpersonal communication. “Ibe Ananaba creatively explores human relationships and pressing global issues through strikingly diverse and engaging styles that express an exciting range of honest and bold contemporary creativity,” Sandra Mbanefo-Obiago, founder, SMO Contemporary Art, and curator, commented on ‘Of Music, Migration & Meaning’ exhibition. Read also: Glo-sponsored African voices changemakers profiles social campaigner-artists “Ananaba is an artist with a critical eye and social conscience who is using his creativity as vehicles for advocacy through artistic expression”, she further said. For some of his followers, the Yeah Yeah Series was a highlight when it was displayed at a pop-up space at Temple Muse in Lagos. For them, the series was successful because of the focus on Fela Anikulapo Kuti. The Yeah Yeah Series featured Ananaba’s nine watercolor and two oil on canvas paintings, which depicted Fela in his legendary performance poses, as well as, the mood and energy of the pulsating music complete with steam, sweat, and smoke rising through the colours. Ananaba is also big in fashion illustration and believes that fashion is a vast topic. In his well attended exhibition at Rele Gallery, Lagos, which he entitled ‘SÉLÉNSÉ’, the fashion illustrator used the platform to take his art to a new height. The exhibition was a result of Ibe’s observation of how fashion is consumed within Nigerian society. After observing the flaunting and flamboyant nature of people, he said that the exhibition “is my interpretation of the lives around me from a contemporary fashion perspective”. His most recent public show was in November 2020 where the painter and philosopher went solo again with his exhibition titled ‘Towards The Light’. The exhibition, which was held while the Coronavirus pandemic was still ravaging the globe, drew art lovers and collectors to Temple Muse, Victoria Island, Lagos, on both physical and virtual platforms. As expected, the works were worth seeing then because Ananaba renders his subjects with deft impressionistic brushstrokes, echoing colorful memories of a liberated time, drawing viewers at the exhibition into rarely visited internal spaces, experiencing renewed joy and peace away from the rush of the noisy, complex lives. Explaining one of his works featuring at his ‘Towards The Light’ exhibition, which is entitled ‘Conversation With The Future (Faith In Uncertain Times)’, the artist said, “With the mind as one’s weapon, as well as, control centre, it’s most ideal to load it with some good dose of courage in these uncertain times. The painting articulates my attempt to beam some light in my daughter’s mind that we will get through all this and come out stronger. It is a heart-to-heart message of hope, as I like to view life from an optimistic angle. The animated progression of the poses ultimately leads to the assurance that by strongly holding on to faith, We Shall Overcome!” Today, the pandemic seems over and the world has triumphed as Ananaba beamed light in his daughter’s mind to assure her that they would overcome challenges in life including Covid-19 ravaging the world then. Moreover, if there is one Nigerian artist that is constantly seeking new ways to hone his skills, it is Ibeabuchi Ananaba. He once engaged in an International Watercolour Portrait face-off with David Lobenberg, a California-based art professor. The face-off was a joint portrait challenge initiative where both exchanged images of themselves and paintings. For him, the exercise spotlighted how borderless and interactive art can be. Ananaba says he draws inspiration for his works from literature and poetry, as well as, spoken word and rap music. The artist is not relenting as his creative juice still flows, leaving admirers of his work and even with great appreciation of his ingenuity. Look out for Ananaba because he has more to offer!