 Bola Tinubu, former Lagos state governor is in early lead as the sorting of votes for the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential primary election has ended at the ongoing special convention of the party holding at the Eagle Square, Abuja. Name of the APC national leader, ‘Bola Ahmed Tinubu’, Asiwaju Tinubu’ ‘Jagaban’ kept renting the air as the ballots are being sorted while Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Rotimi Amaechi Ahmad Lawan and trailed behind. The former Lagos state governor has clearly maintained wide lead as he dominated all the 40 ballot boxes sorted. Meanwhile, Richard Akinnola, the spokesman of the Yemi Osinbajo Campaign Organisation has congratulated the Tinubu ahead of the counting of votes. Akinnola, made the disclosure in a post on his Facebook page, said: “Congratulations, Asiwaju Tinubu, the presumed winner of the primaries. “In any contest, there must be a winner. However, I’m very proud of my choice of support in the person of Prof. Yemi Osinbajo. Read also: APC presidential candidate emerges soon as sorting of votes begins “I have no iota of regret over my support for him. It was a privilege to play a pivotal role for him during the process. I would gladly do it over and over again. It’s a matter of conviction. “And for all our supporters and other volunteers who worked assiduously, day and night on the PYO project, God bless you all. I’m so proud of all of you. BusinessDay earlier reported that Tinubu was inching to clinch presidential ticket of the APC for the 2023 general election when seven other aspirants stepped down for him. They include, Godswill Akpabio, former minister of Niger Delta state Affairs; Ibikunle Amosun, former governor of Ogun state; Kayode Fayemi, governor of Ekiti state and Demiji Bankole, former speaker of the House of Representatives have stepped down for the former Lagos governor. Others were Mohammed Abubakar-Badaru, governor of Jigawa state, Ajayi Borofice, deputy senate leader and Uju Kennedy, the only female aspirant in the race.