 FMDQ Securities Exchange Limited (FMDQ Exchange) has approved the listing of the GPC-SPV Company Plc N20billion Series 1 Fixed Rate Bond under its N50billion Bond Issuance Programme, on its platform. GPC-SPV Company Plc (GPC-SPV) is a special purpose vehicle set up by GPC Energy and Logistics Limited (GPC) to raise finance through the Nigerian debt capital market. This is in line with FMDQ Exchange mandate of providing access to capital for corporates and government entities through the efficient and proficient services offered by its Securities Admission Franchise – Registration, Listing and Quotation. GPC is a fast-growing logistics company that provides premium logistics services to multinationals operating within the Nigerian market space. Speaking on the significance of the issuance to the company, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, GPC, Elvis Okonji, stated “the Bond issuance and listing is in furtherance of company’s strategy to achieving its financial goals and objectives. GPC will continue to pioneer innovation and service excellence within its industry as value enhancers, and we thank the investors, FMDQ Exchange, Planet Capital, InfraCredit, and other parties to the transaction for their support”. Also commenting on the issuance, the sponsor of the Bond and a Registration Member (Listings) of FMDQ Exchange, Planet Capital Limited, represented by its co-Chief Executive Officers, Tony Anonyai and Efe Akhigbe, stated “the listing of the GPC-SPV Bond on FMDQ Exchange is a further boost in the corporate bonds market activities and a veritable platform for price discovery, as well as liquidity for the security, which is good for the investors. Read also: FMDQ Exchange welcomes NECIT Nigeria Limited Series 1 Commercial Paper on its platform “Planet Capital is pleased to have led the Parties to the transaction in the successful issuance of the debut GPC-SPV Bond. This transaction consolidates GPC’s efforts as a leading transport logistics provider in the country, and we are delighted to have supported the company on this phase of their growth”. As part of its commitment to organise, govern and promote credibility and transparency in the Nigerian debt capital market space, FMDQ Exchange shall continue to drive initiatives that are targeted at improving liquidity of securities listed and quoted on its platform, thereby supporting the aspirations of institutions, and making the markets within its purview globally competitive; with a view to positioning the Nigerian financial markets towards achieving its full potential of driving growth and development in the nation. FMDQ Group Plc (FMDQ Group) is Africa’s first vertically integrated financial market infrastructure group, strategically positioned to provide registration, listing, quotation and noting services; integrated trading, clearing & central counterparty, settlement, and risk management for financial market transactions; depository of securities, as well as data and information services, across the debt capital, foreign exchange, derivatives and equity markets, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries – FMDQ Exchange, FMDQ Clear Limited, FMDQ Depository Limited and FMDQ Private Markets Limited. As a sustainability-focused FMI group, FMDQ Group, through FMDQ Exchange, operates Africa’s premier Green Exchange – FMDQ Green Exchange – positioned to lead the transition towards a sustainable future.