 Nigeria Internet Registration Association (NiRA) has reduced the price of .NG domain by over 40 percent. Domains that are registered on this domain string, therefore, have several benefits which include geo-targeting and the reduction of capital flight as well as contribution to the local economy. In addition to the foregoing, the Executive Board of NiRA approved the reduction in price of .ng domains at the second level, further encouraging the public to register .ng domains. “The reduction in price by about 40 percent promotes the agenda of the government towards the growth of Nigeria’s digital economy. NiRA operates a 3-R (Registry/Registrar/Registrant) model of operations and members of the public should take advantage of the price reduction and contact NiRA Accredited Registrars for the registration of non-premium .ng domain names,” Muhammed Rudman, NiRA President, said. The Nigerian internet space went agog with this new development, with NiRA Accredited Registrars sending broadcasts to their customers stating that the price of .ng domains have now reduced. There have been many efforts by the Nigeria Internet Registration Association (NiRA) managers of .ng on behalf of the Nigerian government, to continually increase access to .ng domains, for the promotion of expertise and businesses online. Read also: We enable Nigerian firms to see, get foreign technologies – Fairtrade messe NiRA is responsible for maintaining the database of registered names in the .ng country code Top Level Domain (ccTLD) namespace in the public interest of Nigeria and the global internet community. Like the currency, the Naira and dialing code +234, .ng is Nigerian identity online. “In the coming days, as more Accredited Registrars update their various platforms, the price reduction on the purchase of .ng domain names would have the desired effect of increasing the number of active .ng domains online, promoting the nation’s online identity. NiRA partners with over 70 accredited companies known as Registrars and conducts empowerment programs for Resellers -who are even closer to the grassroots, as ways of making these domain names more available. In recent times, initiatives such as the capacity of domain names registered with errors, to be corrected within 24 hours at no cost to the Registrant as well as the opening of hitherto closed .ng strings such as .net.ng have greatly increased the number of businesses which can make themselves available online using a .ng domain. “The importance of a domain name towards your digital identity cannot be over-emphasised. “For instance, Google would rather serve you results using google.com.ng when you search for information within Nigeria. Interestingly, Google has both com. ng and .ng, extensions an indication of a forward-looking company. We must embrace Nigeria products to grow the strength of the Naira,” Toba Obaniyi, Chief Executive Officer at WhoGoHost Limited, .ng Accredited Registrar, said.