 Abdullahi Adamu, former Governor of Nasarawa and Senator representing the Western Senatorial of the State has been declared winner of the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) election at the ongoing National Convention of the party. Adamu has been returned elected by Abubakar Badaru, Chairman of the Election Sub-committee of the APC and Governor of Jigawa State, following voice affirmation by delegates at the Convention. Read also: APC releases unity list, National officers to emerge via consensus Badaru had explained that six National Chairmanship aspirants; George Akume, Tanko Al-makura, Abdulaziz Yari, Sani Musa, Saliu Mustapha, Etsu Muhammed had withdrawn from the race and submitted letters of withdrawal to him, hence the former Nasarawa State Governor is unopposed, requiring only voice affirmation. He also declared Emma Eneukwu as Deputy National Chairman (South) and
Abubakar Kyari as the Deputy National Chairman (North) after the withdrawal of their co-aspirants, while Festus Funanter was named Deputy National Secretary; Omorede Osifo, Deputy National Treasurer and other National and Zonal Officers who are unopposed in the race. The Jigawa Governor announced that other positions which are still contested will be voted for by the delegates while the Election Committee would make known aspirants who withdraw from the race as voting progresses. The party had already released a unity list which endorsed Adamu for National Chairman, Abubakar Kyari as the Deputy National Chairman (North) and Eneukwu, Deputy National Chairman (South). Other members of the National Working Committee (NWC) endorsed in the list include :Iyisola Omisore, National Secretary; Festus Funanter Deputy National Secretary; Muhazu Rijau
National Vice Chairman (North-central);
Mustapha Salihu, National Vice (North-East); Salihu Lukman, National Vice Chairman (North-west); Ijeoma Arodiogbu, National Vice Chairman (South-east); Victor Giadom, National Vice Chairman (South-south) and
D.I Kekemeke, National Vice Chairman South-west. Also endorsed are; Ahmed El-Marzuk, National Legal Adviser; Beta Edu,
National Woman Leader; Abdulahi Israel, National Youth Leader;
Tolu Bankole, Special Persons Leader;
Uguru Ofoke, National Treasurer; F.N Nwosu, National Welfare Secretary;
Felix Morka, National Publicity Secretary; Abubakar Maikafi, National Auditor; Bashir Gumel, National Financial Secretary; Suleiman Argungun, National Organising Secretary; Ibrahim Salawu, Deputy National Legal Adviser and Omorede Osifo, Deputy National Treasurer. Meanwhile, President Muhamadu Buhari has urged the new APC National Working Committee (NWC) that  emerges at the National Convention to de-emphasise money politics, saying the party will resist imposition of candidates. He enjoined the new NWC members to promote internal democracy and equal opportunities and ensure that party primaries are not influenced by “highest bidders” going into the 2023 elections. Buhari also called on APC to remain united and strong and also support the incoming leadership of the party. The President said: “This Convention is coming at a crucial time when we prepare for another round of a general election. Therefore, the need to remain strong and united for the Party to exploit the rich and abundant potentials at its disposal cannot be overemphasized. We appreciate the right to hold different opinions and aspirations, however, such differences must not be to the detriment of the Party. “l passionately appeal to you all to support the incoming National Working Committee (NWC) to promote unity and avoid sentiments that are capable of causing disaffection and disunity. For those aspiring for party and public offices, your failure to realize such aspirations for Party offices or to fly the Party’s flag, should not be a basis for a campaign of calumny against the party. We should have the spirit of sportsmanship and always support the party to succeed.” He commended the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee for steering the ship of the party this far including; reconciling aggrieved party members, purchasing a new party secretariat and launching an aggressive membership drive that saw three governors defecting into the APC, among others. “I want to congratulate us all for being part of this history-making event and to specially appreciate the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) which has been on a rescue mission under the leadership of His Excellency, Mai Mala Buni, the Yobe State Governor, for successfully piloting the affairs of the Party in the last 18 months and organizing this Convention to elect a new National Working Committee that will take over from the Caretaker Committee. “I am glad the Party under the Caretaker Committee has bounced back to life with the reconciliation of several key and critical stakeholders and groups who had hitherto left the party or were on the verge of leaving the Party. The reconciliation process gave the aggrieved stakeholders a true sense of belonging and assurance. Read also: Desperate moments as politicians weigh options “It is gratifying that the Party recorded massive and unprecedented defections under the Caretaker Committee administration. APC received three sitting Governors, a Deputy Governor, Senators, Members of the House of Representatives and State Assemblies, and other key officials from opposition parties who defected along with millions of their supporters. “I am impressed to learn that the membership registration and revalidation exercise undertaken by the Caretaker Committee, has recorded over 41 million members. This has proved that we are indeed Nigeria’s leading and largest political party.  It also exhibits our numerical strength and the potential to win elections at all given times fairly and squarely.” The President who adduced reasons for his recent intervention in the affairs of the party, assured that it was not intended to muzzle dissenting voices. “Recently, l had cause to intervene in the leadership crisis which was about to cause confusion in the Party. Such internal disputes are common in young democracies such as ours, but we must avoid overheating the polity and not allow our differences to tear and frustrate the Party. “Like I said earlier, it does not do anybody or the Party any good, when we, as leaders, go down so low and resort to backstabbing and name-calling in the media. “We should learn how to resolve our differences without jeopardizing our personal relationships and the fate of the Party. I want to thank the Progressives Governors’ Forum for heeding to my advice and suggestions in settling the leadership dispute,” the President said. President Buhari called on all politicians and the electorate to abide by the new Electoral Act “ to promote the process of election, enhance transparency, fill in existing gaps and add value to Nigeria’s democracy for our democracy to thrive.”