 If not for the Covid-19 pandemic, Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards (AMVCAs) would have held its 8th edition last year; where many fans, movie lovers, industry stakeholders and MultiChoice, the organisers of the awards earnestly looked for a spectacular show. However, the one year hiatus is for good as the AMVCAs is back and better for the 8th edition this year, amid specially curated events to mark its return. On Thursday March 17, 2022, Africa Magic in association with MultiChoice Nigeria rekindled hope for the show when they hosted the media and also unveiled events for this year’s AMVCAs. With an eight-day series of events, this year’s event is the first-of-its-kind since the inception of the awards. The events will culminate on May 14, 2022, which is the awards day. Speaking at a media parley, which held at Lagos Marriott Hotel Ikeja, Dr. Busola Tejumola, executive head, Content and West Africa Channels, MultiChoice Nigeria, stated that the introduction of the eight-day series of events will bring exciting changes to the awards, which had its first edition in 2013. Read also: MultiChoice, Africa Magic announce eighth edition of AMVCAs “We are focused on shining the light on the many aspects that make the African film and television industry truly magical and beaming that magic to millions of Africans who watch the awards every year. “These curated events will feature a celebration of fashion, technology, food and African culture. There will also be panel discussions and film screenings from our MultiChoice Talent Factory, industry sessions, and competitions for digital content creators and budding fashion designers,” she said. The eight-day event will commence with an Opening Night on Saturday May 7, 2022. This will be followed by a first-ever AMVCA runway show in partnership with Bella Naija Style on Sunday, May 8, 2022. On Monday, May 9, 2022 will be MultiChoice Talent Factory Day with movie screenings and panel discussions by students of the MTF academy. Africa Magic will host industry stakeholders to a special Content Market Day on Tuesday, May 10, and a pan-African food festival and cultural day on Wednesday, May 11. A Digital Content Creators’ Day to spotlight the growing popularity of online content creators will be held on Thursday, May 12. There will be a special gala for nominees on Friday, 13 May whilst the awards night, which will hold on Saturday, May 14 will crown the series of events. Dr. Tejumola also noted that the AMVCA was born in line with Africa Magic’s vision of providing entertainment for Africans by Africans. She added that the AMVCA has fostered the development of the African film and television industry since it was introduced. The nominees for the eighth edition of the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards were unveiled on Saturday, March 19, 2022 in a special broadcast on all Africa Magic channels on DStv and GOtv from 9 pm. It was hosted by Nollywood actors, Adesua Etomi-Wellington and Daniel Etim-Effiong. For more information, visit www.africamagic.tv/AMVCA and follow all official handles of Africa Magic on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. The eighth edition of the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards is brought by Africa Magic in association with MultiChoice and is proudly sponsored by Amstel Malta. The event also witnessed the unveiling of Victor Okhai as the head judge for 8th AMVCAs. Okhai, who doubles as the president of Directors Guild of Nigeria, assured of the best as members of his team will bring their professional inputs to bear in their work at the 8th AMVCAs. In the same vein, Amstel Malta is set to light up the awards once again. After several years of partnering with the annual accolade, Amstel has yet again stepped up its support for Nigerian talent by partnering with the 8th edition of the AMVCAs. This edition of the awards, according to the non-alcoholic drink brand, will be full of several exciting features and tons of Amstel Malta. The event will start on Saturday 7 May with the cocktail opening night. Next off is the fashion show! So, if you are a fashion fanatic, make sure you mark your calendars for the 8th of May and prepare to be wowed by ingenious fashion pieces by some of Nigeria’s top stylists.  Since the launch of AMVCA by MultiChoice in 2013, the Awards night has been a platform for showcasing the best of African fashion. A 2018 report for the Independent, the fashion extravaganza on a single night of the AMVCA is estimated by the fashion industry and financial experts to be worth over N100 million, including hair, shoes, bags, jewellery and other fashion items. This has also contributed an estimated $5 billion to Nigeria’s fashion industry. On May 11th, which will host a cultural and food festival, Amstel Malta promises to load everybody up with the premium malt drink. Apart from Amstel Malta, which is the lead sponsor, Pepsi is the technical sponsor, among other supporters as well.