 Abisoye Fagade, the 48-year-old founder and managing director of Sodium Group of companies has declared his intention to contest the position of governor of Oyo State in 2023. The announcement was made at his recent birthday celebration, which also marked the formal launching of his foundation, the OSMD Network. Abisoye, in declaring his intention, said it represented his dedication to “restoring Oyo to its former splendour,” according to a statement. He is noted to have said in a speech that a strategic focus on education, healthcare, technology, finance, agriculture, transportation, and security will be helpful in assisting economic growth, job creation, and capacity building in Oyo State. “I am glad to announce to you that, after many months of deliberations, preparation, and prayers, I have decided to run for Governor of Oyo State, under our great party, the All People’s Congress, APC,” he said. Fagade, an indigene of Oyo state, from Lagelu local government, has been credited with charitable activities in the state, particularly through the Oyo Si Ma Dun (OSMD) Network, which was established in 2010 for youth capacity building. Read also: Oyo Government shuts down illegal tertiary institution in Oke-Ogun Abdulfatah Ahmed, the former Governor of Kwara State was featured in a documentary that lauded Fagade’s character and the significant role played in directing the team that rebranded the state. “With a sense of concept and notion to push excellence, [Fagade] was able to bring to bear what was subsequently acknowledged as a Logo for Kwara and it was greatly celebrated,” the former governor remarked. For Steve Babaeko, founder, X3M Ideas, “You know you can trust Abisoye to be there”. Some political dignitaries present at the occasion expressed their support for his aspirations after he announced his wish to lead the southwestern state. Femi Pedro, former Lagos State Deputy Governor; Shina Peller, Member of the House of Representatives; Steve Ayorinde, former Lagos Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture; and Titi Oseni-Gomez, former Ogun Speaker, were among those in attendance at his declaration of intent. Others were royal fathers including Oba Francis Olusola Alao, Olugbon of Orile-Igbon in Surulere, Ogbomosho, Oyo State; Oba Abdulwasiu Omogbolahan Lawal, Oniru of Iru Land; and Aare Akogun Tunji Alapini, former Assistant Inspector General of Police (RTD).