 Babagana Monguno, Nigeria’s national security adviser, has said the surrendering and reintegration of “repentant Boko Haram elements” has not engendered the desired result in stemming insurgency in the country. Mongonu disclosed this after a meeting the President had with Service Chiefs and other major stakeholders in the country, Thursday. The retired Major General also expressed President Muhammadu Buhari’s grief about the country’s security situation. According to the Security Adviser, “ President Muhammadu Buhari has remained a sad man as a result of the persistent insecurity in the country which the nation’s security agencies have been unable to end”
He revealed that the President cannot be happy when people are being killed on a daily basis. Read also: Boko Haram is a perversion of religion- Buhari He described the recent attacks on the Abuja – Kaduna train as “the last straw”
Mongonnu noted that Buhari has consequently ordered the rescue of all kidnapped persons unhurt using the train attack as a fulcrum. The NSA noted that the President feels that enough was not being done by the security agencies despite what has been provided. Monguno stated that the President alone cannot completely receive the blame for the insecurity in the country as his part is to make strategic decisions which the NAA said he has been doing. The NSA also spoke on the threats coming from the country’s vast land borders and the need to replicate in them what has been achieved in the maritime borders. He also stressed the imperative of intelligence from ordinary citizens as he noted that unless the wider society is willing to provide the necessary intelligence, the problem of insecurity will linger beyond the time frame intended to end the menace.
The meeting which lasted for over three hours, took place inside the Council Chambers of the Presidential Villa, Abuja, He disclosed that the government is however intensifying behind the scene efforts to rescue the about 68 passengers abducted inside the Abuja-Kaduna train.