 Guaranty Trust Holding Company Plc (GTCO Plc) is set for the 5th edition of The Food and Drink Festival. The festival will hold from Saturday, April 30 to Monday, May 2, 2022, at the GTCenter, Lagos. The GTCO Food and Drink Festival brings together the world’s top chefs and foodies in a celebration of all things delectable with family and friends. Thousands of people have attended the food and drink festival over the years, which has featured engaging seminars by top chefs and food industry professionals. This year’s three-day festival will feature cooking seminars from across the world, as well as over 140 free retail stalls showing everything from Nigeria’s street food to bite-sized gourmet treats and fresh farm produce from the farmers’ market. There are play areas for kids while keeping them interested. Read also: Sundry Foods upscales business, opens outlets in Lagos, Abuja, and Port Harcourt “Africa’s rich cultural legacy and history are magnificently reflected in its food. The GTCO Food and Drink Festival’s main goal is to show off our variety and industry as a people while also providing a delectable culinary experience to foodies from all across the continent. We want to see our retail customers who also own small businesses prosper as part of our support to the development of local SMEs by providing them with more chances to interact with consumers from all over the world,” said Segun Agbaje, group chief executive officer, Guaranty Trust Holding Company Plc. He also noted that the bank is committed to providing great experiences to its customers and communities with every interaction. GTCO also plans to continue promoting viable enterprises, particularly in the food and fashion industries, given the massive capabilities and countless multiplier effects inherent in these critical industry segments. Guaranty Trust Holding Company Plc is a financial services company with operations in 11 countries across West and East Africa, as well as the United Kingdom, offering banking and non-banking services such as payments, wealth management, and pension fund management. Customers have benefited from its innovative loan products throughout the years, including the Food industry credit and fashion industry credit, which are intended exclusively for food and fashion firms.