 The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) has applauded Linkage Assurance Plc for its commitment to human capital development of staff particularly in the accounting practice, and its professional ethos in the insurance industry. Comfort Olu Eyitayo, 57th president of ICAN made the commendation when she led her council members on a courtesy visit to the corporate head office of Linkage Assurance Plc, as part of her working visit to Nigeria’s commercial capital Lagos State on Monday. Eyitayo said Linkage has demonstrated strong support for ICAN, by regularly sponsoring its staff to the annual conference and dinner of the Institute, MCPD programmes and other examinations of the accounting body. While commending Linkage Assurance for her competitive edge in the Nigerian insurance industry, she said the company has displayed professionalism and creation of value to her stakeholders having stood strong over the past three decades. Eyitayo, while outlining her programs targeted at creating value and broadening the scope of the profession for the benefit of her members, she called on Linkage Assurance for continuous collaborations in areas that will impact the Nigerian economy. Read also: ICAN, Royal Foundation collaborate on human capital development Daniel Braie, managing director/CEO, Linkage Assurance Plc who led the top management to receive the ICAN team said, over the years the Institute has gained global recognition as an outstanding professional body. He said the Institute has evolved and has never stopped to be the leading professional body in Nigeria and Africa, producing world-class Chartered Accountants located all over the globe. “As a company that cherished the value creation from ICAN, Linkage Assurance Plc currently has four Fellows of Chartered Accountants, eight Associate of Chartered Accountants, and nine Student Accountants.” “I can state equivocally that these members of ICAN are adding value to the company within their various spheres of engagements.” According to him, every year the company sends staff members of the Institute to the Annual Accountants Conference, as well as the Annual ICAN dinner and ensures that they attend at least one Mandatory Continuing Professional Education (MPCE) as part of their professional development. “The company also pays the annual dues for the members of staff and the examination fees for the student accountants, to encourage them in their journey to becoming professionally qualified accountants. The company is a great believer in continuous personal development,” Braie said.