 The Chartered Institute for Securities and Investments (CISI) sounded the closing gong of Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX or The Exchange) as part of the commemorative activities of its 30th Anniversary on Thursday, February 10, 2022. In delivering the opening remarks, Olumide Bolumole, Divisional Head, Listings Business, NGX, stated, “The Exchange is excited to commemorate the 30th year anniversary of the Chartered Institute for Securities & Investment (CISI) – a leading global professional body for securities, investment, wealth and financial planning professionals. We recognize the achievements of the Institute in raising the standards of skills and qualifications as well as enhancing trust in the financial services sector and this past 30 years is a testament to upholding the charitable objectives over the years. Through the learning arm, X-Academy, NGX is pleased to have joined forces with The Institute to achieve greater public benefit by raising professionalism across financial services by delivering a wide range of trainings and globally recognized certifications for financial and investment professionals. Whilst embracing our role in the financial services ecosystem through capacity building, we will continue to actively engage with the community to aid the advancement, dissemination of knowledge and certification of professionals in the field of securities and investments.” On his part, the Director, Global Business Development CISI, Kevin Moore, thanked NGX and the entire capital market community for acknowledging the milestone achievements and supporting the CISI since its emergence from the London Stock Exchange. Read also: Sanwo-Olu, Popoola to deepen synergy between NGX, Lagos State “As an institute that thrives on collaboration and the support of volunteers, I must say that NGX is one of the best partners the CISI has had in one of the most exciting countries we operate. We are confident that the partnership will continue to thrive even as we advance over the next 30 years. As the capital market continues to evolve, we are certain that no matter how interesting the topics to consider become, CISI will stay true to its ageless motto – my word is my bond. The not-for-profit, professional body emerged from the London Stock Exchange in 1992 with 4,800 members in the UK. Today the CISI provides qualifications, continuing professional development and upholds the highest standards of integrity for its 45,000 members in over 100 countries. The CISI’s membership spans wealth management, financial planning and capital markets and in partnership with regulators in over 70 jurisdictions, delivers 40,000 exams a year. Since the partnership between CISI and NGX’s X-Academy was established in 2018, over 100 participants have passed through The Academy, participating in various trainings on securities and investment as well as capacity development activities initiatives that contribute towards international certification in wealth & investment management. Furthermore, with the surge of alternative securities such as Sukuk, working with the CISI, international and Nigerian representatives, X-Academy has introduced trainings on Islamic Finance and other capital market instruments.