 Nollywood actress Funke Akindele was on Tuesday unveiled as the Lagos PDP deputy governorship candidate. Shortly after the announcement was made, Nigerians took to their social media handles to react. Some Nigerians took the news as hope and a good sign for youths and women involved in politics. Here are some reactions to the move from Twitter: “Funke Akindele as a Nigerian has every right to contest for any political post. Politicians have something they are doing before venturing into politics. Her own is entertainment and it doesn’t reduce her capacity to serve. We’ve seen how woefully the so-called successful businessmen,” – @Temitayo TT “People arguing about Funke Akindele’s eligibility forget she has a law degree. Also, being an actor must mean someone is dumb to some of you. If only y’all know the brains it takes to study script after script and actually be as credible a thespian as she is.” — @The Lotachukwu “Seeing women come forward this 2023 Elections is a thing of JOY!! Congratulations Funke Akindele !! We can’t change the system without being PART of the SYSTEM! The time starts now.” – @symply_tacha “I never knew Funke Akindele was into politics. Her first political announcement is her being the running mate for Lagos PDP Governorship election. Well, it’s a good thing for women.” – @MayJaYBaE “I love that Funke Akindele ran! I love that she didn’t allow her recent marital saga to stop the race. People can laugh all they want, even if she doesn’t win, it’s already known that she ran. Didn’t let them bully her!” – @_Matriach “What’s wrong with the choice of Funke Akindele as deputy governor of Lagos State? Is it because she’s an actress and comedian? Isn’t she a professional? Isn’t she educated enough? Isn’t her IQ higher than that of most people holding high offices in the land including Mr President” – @RealOlaudah But some other Nigerians are not favourably disposed to the actress’ move, referencing the recent crisis in her relationship with JJC Skillz as a flaw in her political ambition. ‘‘Funke Akindele you have done nothing to prove that you are worthy to govern Lagosians; Politics is no child’s play. Contest for local government chairman first, let the people know how competent you are before moving to the top. By the way, your focus right now should be fixing your home.’’– @DanielRegha Read also: Funke Akindele emerges running mate to Lagos PDP guber candidate ‘‘Lagos PDP choosing Funke Akindele as their Governorship running mate and tagging it “Lagos needs a breath of fresh air” has to be the funniest thing on the internet. They just extended Sanwo-Olu and MC Oluomo’s tenure because playing politics isnt the same as directing Omo Ghetto.’’– @VictorIsrael_ ‘‘Funke Akindele has been unveiled as the running mate of Olajide Adediran for Lagos State Guber. Okay I See. PDP is not yet serious about taking Lagos from Sanwo-Olu.’’ – @drpenking ‘‘Lagos PDP actually moved from Jimi Agbaje to giving their governorship ticket to Jandor and Funke Akindele, no wonder Sanwo Olu isn’t taking his campaign seriously after winning the return ticket, I’m even beginning to think APC is the one incharge of PDP faction in Lagos state.” – @Tee_classquem ‘‘Funke Akindele has been called out several times for being a toxic boss by her staff, and her ex-step son also called her out for being a toxic wife this same woman with zero political prowess is coming to campaign for the post of the deputy governor, this has to be a big joke!” – @Dj_Brezzymill