 Verve International, Africa’s payment technology and card business platform has welcomed its first francophone e-commerce and merchant aggregator, CinetPay into the Verve ecosystem. CinetPay, the Ivorian-based FinTech provides online and Point-of-Sale (POS) payment solutions for merchants to process payments from more than 40 different payment operators in West and Central Africa. According to verve, this partnership is expected to further establish the Verve footprint across the region and support merchants to accept Verve cards from customers of issuing banks in 13 African countries. Vincent Ogbunude, the chief executive officer of Verve while speaking on the partnership, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Verve said, “We are pleased to welcome CinetPay to the Verve network, the next in a series of strategic African FinTech partners we are welcoming into our network. As the leading pan-African payment scheme, our focus remains to rapidly expand and deepen our network by partnering with FinTech companies, switches, processors, banks, merchant aggregators, and regulators. CinetPay is one of such partners and we look forward to deepening our impact through this mutually beneficial partnership.” Read also: Verve International expands network, issues over 35m cards in Nigeria Idriss Marcial Monthe, CEO and Co-founder of CinetPay disclosed that the partnership is based on it’s commitment to encouraging seamless online transactions across Africa. ‘’We are pleased with this partnership with Verve International which will broaden the payment collection choices for our merchants. This partnership brings us closer to our ambition, known to all and which is to offer the best online payment experience in Africa through simple, fast, and secure transactions,’’ Monthe said. Similarly, Verve disclosed that the partnership was birthed following months of a collaborative effort by the CinetPay team, Verve’s joint partner bank in the West African Monetary and Economic Union (UEMOA), and various teams in Verve International and Interswitch Group. In recent times, Verve explained that it has focused on leveraging strategic partnerships to heighten its impact across African regions, adding that in the East African region, the payment scheme deepened its partnership with KCB Bank of Uganda in a move that saw the acceptance of the Verve Card on KCB Bank’s widespread and strategically distributed Point of Sale (POS) merchant network in Uganda. Meanwhile, Verve International stated that it is the first and only EMV-certified pan-African payment scheme, issuing cards and payment solutions to individuals, issuers, and organizations; and remains committed to pushing the bounds in terms of customer experience and payment possibilities.