 Ahmed Audi, the Commandant General of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), has approved the deployment of 11,226 officers and men to cover the Osun governorship election. A statement signed by the Director, Public Relations, NSCDC National Headquarters, Abuja, DCC Olusola Odumosu, and made available to newsmen in Osogbo said that the officers will cover the 3,763 polling units, collation centres, flashpoints as well as Critical National Assets and Infrastructure in all the 31 Local Government Areas of the State. Audi said that the deployed personnel were derived from the national headquarters and nine State Commands; Osun, Ondo, Ekiti, Oyo, Ogun, Lagos, Kwara, Kogi and Edo supply manpower for the election. The Commandant General stated that the objectives of the Corps in the forthcoming election are to create a secured environment for its successful conduct and enhance the general security in the State before, during and after the election. Audi who explained that personnel had attended various workshops on best practices during election said they have also been acquainted with the provisions of the Electoral Act as regards Rules of Engagement, hence, must comply with the Corps’ Operational Code, Standard Operating Procedure and above all, display of professionalism and high sense of discipline throughout the election. According to him, this robust operational order has been activated to ensure a hitch-free exercise and guide against molestation and intimidation of the electorates by hoodlums or party thugs. Read also: Osun: X-raying Kukah’s peace committee and militarisation of electoral environment Audi further hinted that in readiness for the election, the Corps’ undercover personnel from the National Headquarters have joined their counterparts in Osun State for covert operations to nip any security compromise in the bud. The NSCDC boss also assigned Deputy Commandant General (DCG) in charge of Operations, Dauda Mungadi to oversee the election exercise as well as designated Assistant Commandant General (ACG) Operations, Philip Ayuba, Zonal Commander (Zone J), Fasiu Adeyinka and Commandant Special Duties, Oliver Ugwuja to serve as field Commanders monitoring each senatorial district of the state. “To ensure that critical assets of government are not vandalized by criminal elements before, during and after the election, there shall be deployment of the Ant-vandalism Squad, Critical National Asset protection unit and other special forces to all key points in the State to protect them against vandalism, damage or arson.” He stressed that a pool of officers shall be drawn from Special Forces, such as Arms Squad Unit, Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU), Chemical Biological Radiological Nuclear and Explosives Unit (CBRNE), the Special Female Squad, Rapid Response Squad, K9 and SWAT Unit, different from the regular conventional personnel, in order to have a successful execution of the assignment. He reiterated the Corps’ readiness to partner with sister agencies to ensure a hitch-free poll and to guarantee a crime-free environment to enable eligible voters to exercise their voting rights. Audi warned all personnel deployed to remain apolitical, stressing that whoever is found perpetrating unethical conduct will certainly face sanctions. For ease of communication, the Corps has provided Operational Hot Lines – 08060003181, 08032898909 and N-Alert Situation Room Hotlines: 08066005861, 08032928878 and 07034322058.