 Igugu Global, a climate fintech firm has launched a green finance marketplace (GFM) to aid portfolio managers overcome the challenges of searching and benchmarking climate risk and climate-related investment opportunities across Africa. The firm explained in a statement on Wednesday that GFM was a benchmarking platform that offers consistently comparable climate data for financial actors growing cross sectors and multi-geography portfolios in Africa. Anele Makhwaza, founder of Igugu Global said, “As regulators push for the significant expansion and standardization of climate-related disclosures, Igugu Global offers a market-led solution to bridge the gap in Africa and accelerate the flow of capital to natural and sustainable infrastructure.” Starting with 9 countries that account for more than half a billion Africans and 65 percent of the continent’s GDP, according to the climate firm, the platform standardizes more than 1000 companies across sectors, their environmental risk disclosed and their sustainable commitments, to the likes of the TCFD, verified. “Currently, less than 2 percent of African companies disclose climate exposure and financing, therefore, Igugu Global data is a key step to evaluating the climate exposure of assets in a comparable manner. Read also: Fintech not a threat to Nigerian banks – Fitch Ratings “The green finance market has surpassed $1.6 trillion in bond issuance, but only $5.4 billion has gone to Africa – the most vulnerable of the continents in light climate change. Regulation is scattered and inconsistent, but Igugu Global’s GFM solves this by consolidating debts and companies’ disclosures in one place,” Makhwaza said. Similarly, the founder disclosed that unlike peer capital markets solutions, the firm has set out to facilitate the carbon transition by relieving financial actors of the time and cost of searching for climate related investment pipelines, managing and disclosing portfolio climate finance commitments. She said, “In becoming the registry for how and at what price Africa comes to market, financial actors can use Igugu Global’s consensus and disclosure to monitor and circumvent opaque transitional climate policy and identify deal flow.” Meanwhile, she explained that Promoting awareness and understanding of climate-related risks and sources of adaptation finance will help all African businesses contribute to the transition to a low-carbon economy and to Africa’s climate goals, adding that growing businesses can look forward to greater visibility and working with the climate fintech platform.