 Norebase, a Nigerian-based tradetech company launched in 2021, has secured a $1 million pre-seed funding round to accelerate plans to build a plug-and-play company incorporation technology. According to the company, the funding will broaden its trademark registration technology stack, bolster its existing team of world-class talents and develop more research-led solutions. The Funding was co-led by Samurai Incubate and Consonance Investment, while Sahil Lavingia (Gumroad) and Kinfolk VC participated in the fundraise. Other investors include Future Africa, Venture platform, Microtraction, Boleh Venture, Voltron Capital, Wuri ventures, Afropreneur, and angel investments from Shola Akinlade (Paystack), Odunayo Eweniyi (Piggyvest), Adia Sowho (MTN Nigeria), Akin Oyebode, and Seni Sulyman. The company said it is building Africa’s company and trademark platform that simplifies the start and scale processes for businesses in the continent and beyond. “Norebase is building a future where starting a business or expanding a business in any African country is as simple as clicking a single button, and we are deliberately building the single digital infrastructure and technology tools that will power trade across the continent,” Tola Onayemi, CEO of Norebase Read also: MTN Nigeria’s Q1 PBT up 39.4% to N143.6bn She disclosed that Africa’s startup space is rightly attracting the global business world’s attention as a region with enormous potential, and the company is thrilled to connect new and existing businesses with the means with which they can scale their business in and beyond Africa more seamlessly, adding that the rapid acceleration of innovation across Africa and the growing attractiveness of new markets requires the know-how of a smoother cross-border expansion experience, and our team is the best at this. She expressed delight in joining investors, whose expertise will play a key role in scaling the Norebase goal of being partners for set-up, compliance, and regulatory needs for both cross-border expansions and local markets. Rena Yoneyama of Samurai Incubate added, “It is truly impressive how Norebase is designing a future where every business and individual can experience Africa as
one market. Their team comprises some of the best minds on the continent, helping simplify the complications of launching in any African market, and we are excited to be part of their growth journey.” The company explained that it is leveraging technology to unlock an era of Africa-wide prosperity by enabling ease of business in the African market.