 Vice President Yemi Osinbajo concluded his nationwide consultations with his visit to Benue and Lagos states Wednesday. A statement by Laolu Akande, senior special assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, ( office of the vice president) revealed that the Vice President concluded his engaging interactive sessions with stakeholders and delegates of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in all the 36 States and the FCT, Abuja. The vice president had declared his intention to contest the 2023 presidential election under the platform of the APC on Monday, April 11 and began the interactive sessions with the delegates, starting with Ibadan, Oyo State, on Friday, April 22. The declaration, which was televised and broadcast online, went viral on traditional, digital and social media platforms, with scores of millions at home and abroad welcoming the VP’s presidential declaration. Since the declarations, Osinbajo has toured all the 36 states of the country meeting delegates and stakeholders of the party, selling his candidature to the delegates. At his declaration, Osinbajo had stated that “I believe that the very reason why the Almighty God gave me these experiences, these insights, and these opportunities, is that they must be put to the use of our country and its great people,” The statement said the Vice President had a robust interactive sessions with every of those interactions with stakeholders and delegates from the 36 States and the FCT, Read also: Osinbajo says APC is poised to win back Rivers along with the centre The Vice President also used the opportunity to respond to all the questions through robust question-and-answer sessions while also discussing and exchanging ideas. “During the interactive sessions, Osinbajo fielded questions on various national issues, including security, economy, technology, education, health, youth, women empowerment, social investments; and exchanged ideas on issues of national development, governance and politics. At the end of each interactive session, Osinbajo took time to personally share moments with all the delegates and stakeholders while taking photographs with every one of them individually. “During the visits across the country, he also paid courtesy calls at the palaces of traditional rulers, meeting with many of the Traditional Council in the respective States. The APC Special Convention for the presidential primaries comes up on Sunday May 29, 2022, where the delegates will decide who picks the party’s ticket.