 Pius Anyim, a frontline presidential aspirant on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), has protested the absence of Ebonyi State delegates from the PDP primaries, warning that their disenfranchisement would fundamentally affect the exercise. BuisnessDay check shows that crises in the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), has continued to cast dark clouds over the successful conduct of Saturday’s Presidential primary convention of the party This is as Edo, Anambra, Abia, Imo, Ogun and Ebonyi States have been embroiled in one form of crises or the other, over the party’s primaries conducted in those six states The crises which led to the exit of one of the frontline aspirants, Peter Obi, also caused the resignation of its Senate Minority leader, Enyinnaya Abaribe, amongst others Anyim in a letter to the party’s National Chairman, Iyorchia Ayu on Friday, expressed deep concern on the absence of list of delegates from Ebonyi State, among the list of delegates from other states of the Federation, for the National convention of party scheduled to hold on the 28th and 29th of May, 2022 in Abuja. Read also: Benue, Delta Speakers pick PDP guber tickets In an open letter of concern issued on Friday, 27th May 2022 and addressed to Ayu, Chairman of the PDP Special Convention, David Mark, Anyim lamented that he had gone through the list of delegates from other states and the FCT but could not find that of Ebonyi State delegates. “Despite assurances by the National Organising Secretary of the Party that, what he called ‘technical error’ would be rectified, the problem remained as at 12 noon on Friday May 27,” the letter which was personally signed by Anyim and titled “Open Letter on the Absence of Ebonyi State Delegates List”, Anyim said. “The Chairman may recall that during the meeting of Presidential aspirants and the Special Convention Committee held on the 26th day of May 2022 at the Legacy House, that the entire delegates list for all the states were presented to each of the aspirants.
“On an examination of the list, I discovered that the Ebonyi State delegates list was not included. On inquiry from the National Organizing Secretary, he informed me that there was a technical error and it will be corrected today. “As at the time of writing this letter i.e. 12 noon 27th/05/2022, I have no clue about the fate of the delegates from Ebonyi State. “The purpose of this letter is to alert all concerned that disenfranchising delegates from Ebonyi State or any state for that matter will fundamentally affect the election”, the open letter warned.