 Eden Life, Africa’s concierge services scheduling platform, has acquired Lynk, the former technology company connecting informal workers to job opportunities across Kenya. The acquisition by Enza Capital, sees Eden Life expand into Kenya and leverages Lynk’s platform that connects informal workers with end-users through automated job matching and standardized processes. Launched in Nigeria in 2019 with a vision to connect busy professionals with concierge services, Eden Life offers its users a subscription service that delivers high-quality chef-cooked meals, laundry services, home cleaning and a new additional beauty and wellness service for users in Nairobi. “The combination of the technology that powered Lynk to empower informal workers and the data-rich Eden Life app presents an immense opportunity to grow not just the menu of services, but also the number of people who can benefit from the platform,” Akinyi Ooko-Ombaka, Country Lead at Eden Life Kenya, said. Available on Google Play and the App Store, the tech-powered ‘concierge of comfort’ aims to remove the barriers to finding reliable household services in Nairobi, building on its success in Lagos where the service has an 80 percent retention rate during the course of the last twelve months with month-on-month growth at 15 percent. As well as being able to select the specific chore they need carrying out, Eden Life’s user-focused platform allows users to continually give feedback on all aspects of service delivery from quality to user experience. Read also: P+ Measurement Services Wins Industry Awards ‘for quality offerings’ The app has also been built to aggregate data based on customer preferences and offer suggestions based on prior experience, and includes additional features such as delivery time tracking, payments and billing, and user notifications that provide users with visibility and trust. “We’re thrilled to build on the incredible growth we’ve achieved in Nigeria and to bring the Eden Life philosophy to connect quality service providers with consumers in a whole new way. Combining our platform with the knowledge and market experience of Lynk is a real dream matchup and we’re excited to work with our new team of world-class colleagues,” Nadayar Enegesi, Co-Founder at Eden Life and Co-founder at Andela, said. According to the company, post-pandemic working life has seen more people working longer hours, leaving them with limited time to get key things done around the home. Eden Life is focused on disrupting the home services market by making life easier for the chronically time-poor tech-native professionals and executives, allowing them to channel their time into more productive activities as well as affording them more quality leisure time.