 Kayode Fayemi, governor of Ekiti State has announced that he will declare his presidential bid Wednesday. Fayemi revealed this in a video clip he posted on his microblogging platform, Twitter. In the one minute video, Fayemi said Nigerians must not lose hope
In the future of the country, noting that despite the present challenges the nation’s dreams were realizable. “The Nigeria of our dreams is possible, a Nigeria that is the pride and joy of all, among others,” Fayemi said. Fayemi’s bid has also been confirmed in another social media post by the Ekiti State Commissioner for Finance and Economic Development, Akin Oyebode. Also expected to declare his presidential ambition anytime from now is former Ogun State governor Ibikunle Amosun. Amosun currently represents Ogun Central Senatorial District in the National Assembly. According to reports, Amosun is banking on his relationship with President Buhari since their days in the defunct All Nigeria People’s Party (ANPP). Meanwhile, the development means the list of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) presidential aspirants in the Southwest has continued to increase. Some of the existing contenders for the APC ticket from the region are Nigeria’s Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo and former Lagos State governor, Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The trio will look forward to battling it out with other aspirants to clinch the party ticket on May 30 and June 1, when the ruling party will have its primary election to pick presidential candidates for the 2023 elections. Read also: Tinubu picks APC presidential forms Aspirants from other regions who have publicly declared their presidential ambition are; Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi, Yahaya Bello, Governor of Kogi State. Others are Rotimi Amaechi, Minister of Transportation, Rochas Okorocha, former Imo state governor and Orji Uzor Kalu, former Abia State Governor. Also reports say that the President of the Nigerian Senate, Ahmed Lawan, is also expected to declare his presidential ambition tomorrow under the APC. An aide of the Senate President revealed this in a conversation with Daily Trust, adding that plan to announce his ambition has been concluded. He further stated that there is nothing wrong with Lawan who is a Northerner to be aspiring to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. The aide said that President Buhari would be happy to see one of the arms of government take over at the end of his tenure. According to the report, the aide said that his principal is capable and experienced enough to turn around the fortunes of Nigeria positively.