 AppZone, sub-Saharan Africa’s payment infrastructure company, has emerged as the winner of the Excellence in Blockchain Technology at the 2022 edition of the Africa fintech submit in Washington Dc recently. The Africa Fintech Summit, for the past seven years has brought the entrepreneurs and opportunities that are revolutionizing finance in Africa to the world stage through a series of pan-African summits, roundtables, virtual events, and investor missions. The Africa Fintech Summit Awards platform, is a longstanding tradition designed to recognize African fintech stakeholders for their actions in enabling the continent’s start-up ecosystem, accelerating innovation, and driving financial inclusion and literacy. AppZone has been selected to receive the 2022 “Excellence in Blockchain Technology” award in recognition of its efforts in leading the adoption of blockchain technology for payment processing on the continent and achieving interoperability with the infrastructure of existing traditional financial ecosystem stakeholders on its blockchain payment network. Read also: PEARL Awards set to host 25th edition Zone is Africa’s private Blockchain network, connecting banks and fintechs directly to enable frictionless digital payments while allowing previously prohibited financial institutions to participate. Over 16 commercial banks in Nigeria have accepted it, and it is being adopted by other financial institutions, fintechs, and commercial banks across Africa. According to Obi Emetaron, Co-Founder and CEO of AppZone said, “The increasing maturity of the fintech ecosystem in Africa is impressive, and we are happy to be a part of the story of progress for the continent. Whether as an entrepreneur, investor, traditional financial institution, or customer, it is an exciting time to be involved in African Fintech. Even more rewarding is the joy of getting recognition for the solutions we create at AppZone”. “We remain committed to our mission of connecting every financial store of value in Africa to the rest of the world. Recognitions like this will only spur us on to give more to Africa’s fast-evolving Fintech landscape”, he added. Every year since its inception, the Africa Fintech Summit brings together the most active and influential minds driving the growth of Africa’s fintech sector while recognizing excellence in entrepreneurship and innovation across the Fintech ecosystem in Africa.