 The challenges of litigation in Nigerian courts, which often discourages small businesses that require justice, but find it expensive and cumbersome to pursue, is being addressed in Nasarawa state where a small claims court has been established. The formal unveiling of a handbook for the small claims court in the state, is making it more business-friendly particularly for Small and Medium enterprises to invest and operate, Aisha Aliyu, the state’s chief judge has disclosed. Aliyu said this at the formal launch of the court during the inaugural Nasarawa investment summit in Lafia, the state’s capital. The court, which was formally launched by Governor Abdullahi Sule, was achieved in collaboration with the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council. The court is designed to ensure speedy and efficient resolution of commercial disputes, involving small claims from N5million and below in all the Chief Magistrate Courts across the 13 Local Government Areas of the state, the Chief Judge noted. “We all know that business owners don’t like their capital tied down. Sometimes they get reluctant to invest if access to justice is limited,” said Jumoke Odumole, special adviser to the president on ease of doing business. Small claims court, she said, is an initiative that following PEBEC’s advocacy, was started in Lagos state, and Nasarawa has become the first state in the North Central geopolitical zone to implement it. John Mahama, a former president of Ghana who delivered a keynote address at the summit, while lauding the initiative had said it was one that forward-looking governments should emulate. He had also remarked that he would be eager to suggest the idea on his return to Ghana, so that it can be replicated and also help boost the confidence of small businesses that are discouraged because of the ‘regular judiciary processes’. Read also: Dangote pledges to top $500m investment in Nasarawa According to the Nasarawa chief judge, more than 130 claims have been submitted and being resolved within the court’s early weeks in existence, which she says is boosting confidence of business people. She noted that the settlement of disputes is being made more efficient because the court does not involve the rigorous processes of the regular courts. The chief judge also noted that the court became necessary due to the number of complaints and petitions from residents in the state, hence she did not hesitate to initiate the process for the claims reforms. To further strengthen the capacity of these courts, the Chief Judge said that the state will be holding its first training for staff of the small claims court on May 13, 2022, while a second one will be done between May 24 and 25. “It is our sincere hope that this training meets the challenges of this court and also makes doing business in Nasarawa state easy,” she said. She applauded the Governor for being Judiciary-friendly and rendering support especially in the prompt release of funds for the establishment of the courts. For Oduwole, the establishment of the court would “help small businesses in Nasarawa state improve,” while reiterating that the small claims court is an intervention and a reform that creates access to justice for SME enterprises across the country. The special adviser also applauded the state government for making establishment of the court a priority which was demonstrated in the speed with which it was established.