 Peak Milk, Nigeria’s dairy brand, from the stables of FrieslandCampina WAMCO, has announced its plan to revive Nigeria’s declining breakfast culture, drive good dairy nutrition knowledge, and debunk breakfast myths to mark this year’s World Milk day. “There are many health benefits you derive from eating breakfast, as it improves energy levels and ability to concentrate in the short term,” said Omotayo Olaobaju, brand manager, Peak Milk. Despite these advantages, many people continue to skip breakfast for a variety of reasons, including myths and their hectic lifestyles. Similarly, Omolara Banjoko, marketing manager, Peak Milk said “this eventually affects their performance because the necessary level of energy and nourishment is lacking.” The good news is that there are now numerous ways to incorporate breakfast into your daily routine. Peak Milk will use National Breakfast Week and World Milk Day to raise awareness about the benefits of dairy consumption for mental and physical performance. Several events have also been planned to run from May 23rd to World Milk Day on June 1st. They include digital conversations online about the importance of eating breakfast every day and the health benefits of eating breakfast meals enriched with Peak goodness, as well as social media highlighting. Read also: Peak Milk promotes culture of giving, sharing, caring this Ramadan On World Milk Day, the brand will also engage its consumers across multiple touchpoints with a disruptive digital experiential campaign titled “Missing Breakfast is a Crime,” a creative way to drive the importance of milk and breakfast as the ultimate meal of the day. The Peak Breakfast Police, a fictional authority figure, will dramatize the ‘Missing Breakfast is a Crime’ campaign by mass arresting breakfast skippers in various locations. The arrested defaulters are expected to post bail with a nourishing pack of Peak Breakfast and a promise never to skip breakfast again. Breakfast is the most important meal of the day, according to research, because it provides sustenance and energy for the day’s activities, as well as essential nutrients for good health. According to studies, only 56 percent of Nigerians eat breakfast, 41 percent consume dairy, and 58 percent eat out of home. (From the FCW Sunrise Study 2019) In addition, the dairy brand will drive massive engagement among its consumers across the country by serving nutritious breakfast meals and encouraging them to never skip breakfast. The campaign aims to get over 10,000 Nigerians to pledge to eat dairy with a Peak breakfast every day for proper nutrition. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) established World Milk Day in 2001 to celebrate and raise public awareness about the nutritional and economic importance of milk and milk products around the world.