 Senator Bassey Otu, the All Progressives Congress (APC) consensus candidate for the Cross River State 2023 governorship elections says the state has lost over $2 billion worth of aquatic resources being currently taken out of Bakassi that would have stabilized the state’s economy He lamented that the ceding of Bakassi to the Republic of Cameroon was done in bad faith as there was no referendum carried out before the ceding. Addressing Journalists at his campaign headquarters after being screened in Abuja, the former lawmaker said if elected as governor next year, he will revisit the controversial ceding of Bakassi to Cameroon. “No referendum was conducted to decide the fate of the people of Bakassi. This condition must be looked into in challenging global conscience with the consequences of ceding Bakassi,” Otu said. “Many Cross Riverians will be empowered as contractors at the national level to compete with other Nigerians.” He said Cross River will be developed as an evacuation corridor on air, land and sea to boost tourism, commerce and enterprise in the state. “We will build on Governor Ayade’s foundation. Industrialisation will be deepened and fully harnessed through governance and project continuity rather than a break for new projects,” the aspirant said. “Human capital development will be the chief economic driver for my administration. Read also: 2023: Political atmosphere hots up as PDP, APC elect presidential candidates consecutively “Agroeconomy will be the mainstay of the development index with crops, minerals and plantations at economy of scale and comparative advantage in every community. “Revisiting the Bakassi, 76 oil wells and the Greentree agreement matters to correct the current irregularities and suffering of Cross Riverians with heavy debt burden.” He vowed that his administration will pursue peace through justice and equity, stop communal crises and help the state develop faster. ” Our economic blueprint will make Cross River State the Europe of Africa,” Otu added. On the alleged defrauding of the former Mercantile Bank of the Cross River State Government ,he said “I have never defrauded anyone or any establishment nor appeared in any court on account of character deficit. Security agents are on track of mischief makers circulating falsehoods against my person.” On the food on the table by governor Ben Ayade, he said “I will modify “the food on the table template” by adding jobs, productivity and hope to maximize beneficiaries’ potentials and sustain the social welfare fabric of the state to avoid relapse into criminalities and insecurities.” “As a student Union leader in Isong’s regime, I pioneered bursary in Unical and the culture has remained decades after. “Cross River State needs socketing to the centre to move in federal presence such as the ongoing federal roads construction and repairs, railway linkages which are capable of turning the economy around. “I have come prepared, tested and trusted in very sensitive national agencies, assignments and interventions “Some of my legislative innovations are very very critical to the Nigerian nation in banking, gas and oil as well as local contents matrix which has put economic control in the hands of many Nigerians. “I’m holding the mandate in trust for my co-aspirants. We are all victorious. Everyone will have a place in my Government when elected. “I trust absolutely in God as the One who gives power to anyone He chooses. I believe in the ethical politics of Gov Ayade as a Man whose word is his bond and who has stabilized CRS political power equation through equity by standing by the back to South essence. “My greatest governance philosophy is inclusiveness of all the genders, ages and classes in decision making and leadership at various levels.”