 Aminu Tambuwal, People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential aspirant and governor of Sokoto State has promised to rescue the country from the current spate of insecurity and work with experts to revamp the country’s economy if elected president after the 2023 presidential election. Tambuwal stated this early Thursday morning when addressing Lagos delegates at a town hall meeting in Ikeja. He said the country was in a precarious situation which needs urgent intervention from committed and focus leader to save it from total collapse. The presidential aspirant, advises the PDP delegates to vote their conscience and not ‘moneybags’, saying that they should not mortgage the future of the Nigeria and their children. He noted that Nigeria must work for everyone again and that under his leadership the country would be united for progress. The Governor stated that there was need to address the economy, security and other challenges facing the nation, adding that the party should be united to rescue Nigeria. Read also: Insecurity worsens Nigeria’s development indicators ” We have never seen this kind of situation before where our unity is so threatened, where corruption has been taking to the next level. It is no more safe to move freely around in the country. The primaries is the beginning of the process as PDP presidential aspirants take turn to lobby you. ” The presidential job is a tasking one and we cannot be experimenting anymore. Our standard bearer must be clear with the party’s vision and understand the task ahead,” he said. Tambuwal stressed that he is equipped with the required knowledge to move the forward forward having served in the legislature and the executive and being a trained lawyer. According to him,”I have the bridge between the old and the younger generation of Nigeria. What we lack in this country today is good leadership. We must consider aspirant who can win election for the party. Age, capacity, character, and experience are factors to be considered in choosing our presidential candidate. I will never be a dictator”. He advised Lagos PDP to be united ahead of the 2023 general elections in order to wrestle power from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, adding that Lagos is crucial to the development and progress of the country. ” You have to work as united family in Lagos. The state is important not to be left in the hands of the APC in 2023 and even at the centre. With what I am seeing here, it shows the PDP is alive in Lagos state”, Tambuwal added.