 The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has officially thrown the presidential contest open, upholding the position of its Zoning committee. A former president of the Senate, David Mark was also appointed to chair the party presidential primary scheduled to hold on the 28th of May, 2022, in Abuja. National Publicity Secretary of the party, Debo Ologunagba, announced this after a series of meetings involving major stakeholders of the party in Abuja Wednesday. The party had in the past months embroiled in crisis over where the presidential ticket should be zoned to. The southern stakeholders of the party were of the opinion that the ticket should be zoned to South, while their Northern counterparts said that the contest should be thrown open. According to Ologunagba, “The National Executive Committee (NEC), said it had after “A very extensive deliberation aligned with the recommendation of the PDP National Zoning Committee that the Presidential Election should now be left open. The party should also work towards consensus candidate where possible. “NEC noted the recommendation of the Zoning Committee that in the interest of justice and fair play, the party should take decision on zoning timeously so as to prevent complications to the process.” He disclosed that NEC also ratified the conduct of the Presidential Primary (Special National Convention) to elect the party’s Presidential Candidate on Saturday May 28 to Sunday May 29, 2022 in Abuja. “NEC approved the setting up of the National Convention Organising Committee and approved the appointment of His Excellency, Senator David Mark as Chairman; His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi as Deputy Chairman and His Excellency Barr. Ibrahim Shema as Secretary.
“It also assured of free, fair, credible and transparent processes for the emergence of our party’s candidates for all elective positions in the 2023 general election,” he said Read also: Again, INEC warns parties to stick to timelines for primaries The party had also applauded other organs, namely, the Board of Trustees (BoT), the PDP Governors’ Forum, the National Assembly Caucus, the Zonal and State Organs of the party, its structures at various levels, critical stakeholders and teeming members across the country for their efforts in strengthening the party in the mission to “Rescue and Rebuild our nation from the misrule of the APC.” According to him, “NEC commended the NWC for the deft handling of issues relating to the conduct and outcome of our party congresses at various levels preparatory to the election of candidates for various elective positions in the 2023 general election. “It also applauded the spirit of sportsmanship being exhibited by our leaders, critical stakeholders, aspirants and party members on issues relating to our Congresses.” On the state of the nation, he disclosed that the party strongly decried the worsening insecurity and continued killing of innocent Nigerians by terrorists who are emboldened by the refusal of the APC-led government to confront the terrorists even when it knows their locations, listens to their phone conversations and even aware of their plans. “NEC Condemned the failure/refusal of the APC government to rescue our citizens still languishing in their abductors’ dens including victims of last month’s terrorism attack on the Abuja/Kaduna train. NEC urged the Federal Government to live up to its Constitutional duty to secure lives and property and ensure an unconditional release of all the abductees. “NEC expressed dismay that our security command and control coordination structure has collapsed under President Muhammadu Buhari as Mr. President remains ‘absent’ having abdicated his duties as Commander-in-Chief and surrendering sovereignty over a substantial part of our country to terrorists. “NEC further condemned the humongous corruption and deliberate economic manipulations in the APC Government which have crippled our productive sector and resulted in the unbearable high cost of food items and other essential goods and services with consequential excruciating economic hardship to our citizens.” The party assured Nigerians that the PDP was resolute in taking very firm legitimate series of action in the march to restore and protect the sanctity of our Central Bank and electoral process. Ologunagba also announced that the NEC rejected the continuing closure of public universities in Nigeria due to the refusal/failure of the APC government to decisively address the lingering industrial action by lecturers in public universities despite the huge resources at its disposal. It cautioned the APC to stop playing “with the emotions, destiny and future of our youths and take action to address the industrial action immediately so that our children can go back to their classes. “NEC condemned in very strong terms the mass looting of our national treasury and diversion of public funds through orchestrated purchase of APC Presidential Expression of Interest and Nomination Forms by all manner of persons at excessive N100 million to warehouse slush funds for APC to rig the 2023 general election. We restate our demand to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to investigate all APC Presidential aspirants in this regard.” The party also restated its earlier “call for the immediate resignation, arrest and prosecution of the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, for alleged manipulations and financial impropriety in the CBN which contributed to the collapse of our national economy. “NEC vehemently rejected the continued stay of Mr. Emefiele as CBN Governor after being confirmed as a card-carrying member of the APC. The CBN is the custodian and keeper of all INEC sensitive materials used in all elections. Having been confirmed as a member of the APC, Mr. Emefiele, can no longer be trusted with INEC sensitive materials which are key to guarantee free, fair and credible elections.”