 The Golden Fertilizer Company recently organized its annual customer conference, and in its customary fashion, top-performing customers were recognized and rewarded. The event themed ‘Stronger Together: Celebrating the Past, Transforming the Present, Defining the Future’, which is returning after a brief hiatus due to COVID restrictions, saw Golden Fertilizer celebrating its partners who had made significant contributions to the company’s success. Speaking at the event, Falade Olusegun, the general manager of Golden Agri Inputs Limited – a subsidiary of FMN Group recognized and appreciated Golden Fertilizer’s customers, who have undoubtedly become an intricate part of the company and kept the brand in its winning ways. “As the farmer’s friend, Golden Fertilizer has maintained its mission to provide appropriate fertilizer blends and agronomy support to ensure bountiful harvests for our farmers, thereby optimizing local production and enhancing food security in our dear country,” he said. Read also: Our target is to simplify home ownership for customers – Realvest CEO “We recognize that we cannot achieve these lofty goals without you, our esteemed partners, which is why we are here today to thank you and acknowledge and appreciate your unwavering support as we continue on this journey of feeding the nation every day.” Sadiq Usman, FMN’s director, group strategy & stakeholder relations, who also spoke during the event, reaffirmed the necessity of optimizing Golden fertilizer’s innovative model and its importance in positioning the company to face future challenges by strengthening its partnership with customers. “I can assure you that FMN remains committed to strengthening its business model in Golden Fertilizer which places our customers at the core of our strategy.” “We thank you for your unwavering support over the years, even as we continue to attain greater heights by working together as a team. It is said that if you want to go fast, you go alone, but if you want to go far, you go together. We look forward to going far with you, our partners.” The ceremony culminated with a brilliant showpiece that saw several customers win large sums of money. Top-performing dealers received more than N13.5 million in cash prizes, including ‘Nura Makarfi,’ a top-performing dealer who won as much as seven million Naira. He was followed by Bello Ladan, who won N5 million cash. Overall, the dazzling event had the customers in high spirits. They were treated to spectacular entertainment, including great music, delicious meals, and the comedic stylings of popular Hausa actor and comedian ‘Saeed Mohammed’ who anchored the event.