 The Emir of Ilorin and chairman of Kwara State Traditional Rulers Council, Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari has endorsed the second term bid of Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq. Sulu-Gambari gave his support to Abdulrazaq’s second term bid, on Tuesday, when he declared at a public function that the governor has performed well and ‘deserves another opportunity to complete his good works.’ The emir spoke in Ilorin at the 2022 Bareke held at the Government House, as part of activities marking Eid-el-Fitr. “The governor has been hard working. In fact, he is a field man. I think he spends more time on the field than in the office. I am very glad to be here and, from my heart, to testify that I am here in good faith. And I wish that the governor goes for another term in office. Read also: Emir to turban Alimi as 2nd Mutawali of Ilorin “It is an individual’s right enshrined in the constitution of Nigeria that if you do the first time of four years you may also contest for a second term. “Each citizen of Nigeria is entitled to ask and he should be answered. Your Excellency, go ahead in your aspiration to become second-term governor in Kwara State. May God be with you, guide you and enable you to succeed,” said the emir. Sulu-Gambari prayed for Abdulrazaq for continuous God’s guidance and strength to consolidate on his feats across sectors of the state’s economy. On his part, Governor Abdulrazaq said the emir’s visit to the Government House was a testament to the excellent relationship between the traditional institutions and the government in the state. He said he did not take the love which the emir has shown him for granted, adding that “Be rest assured that this administration will always honour and respect the legacies of the House of Sheikh Alimi. The governor restated the commitment of his administration to peace, unity, and the general well-being of the largest majority of the people of the state. “And within a space of three years, we have made Kwara workers one of the best and promptly paid workforces in central Nigeria. “Our commitment to collective good is evident across all sectors. Health indices have improved; we have upgraded facilities across the state. “We have taken roads and other developmental projects to the remotest corners of our state; and we have standardised basic education. Today, unlike before, Kwara competes strongly with its peers in things that truly matter. “But this is just the beginning. Over the next few years, our state will be the go-to place for national and international events. This is thanks to the different facilities we are building,” the governor added.