 Goodluck Jonathan, a former president of Nigeria will not seek reelection on the All Progressives Congress (APC) platform in the 2023 elections, his spokesman has said. This puts an end to several months of speculation that he was planning to put up a battle for the presidential seat once again. Ikechukwu Eze, the former presiden’s spokesman said in a statement late on Monday that the former president who held power under the People’s Democratic Party, now in opposition, between 2010-2015 did not authorise the purchase of the nomination forms, a requirement for candidates to take part in primary elections. Jonathan rejected the N100 million worth All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential nomination forms bought for him by a group known as Association Fulani/Almajir. The Fulani/Almajiri stormed the Abuja International Conference Centre, venue for the sale of APC nomination forms Monday night and obtained the documents for the former president to run for the exalted office again. But Jonathan in a statement by his Media Adviser, Ikechukwu Eze turned down the offer, insisting that it was an insult to buy such forms for him without his consent. The statement read: “It has come to our notice that a group has purportedly purchased Presidential Nomination and Expression of Interest forms, of the All Progressives Congress APC, in the name of former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan. Read also: APC aspirants rush for forms as sale closes Tuesday “We wish to categorically state that Dr. Jonathan was not aware of this bid and did not authorize it. We want to state that if the former President wanted to contest an election, he would make his intentions clear to the public and will not enter through the back door. “While we appreciate the overwhelming request by a cross-section of Nigerians, for Jonathan to make himself available for the 2023 Presidential election, we wish to state, that he has not in anyway, committed himself to this request. “Buying a presidential aspiration form in the name Jonathan without his consent, knowing the position he had held in this country, is considered an insult to his person. The general public is therefore advised to disregard it”.