 Tinubu Support Group (TSG) said they will go back home and lick their wounds if former Lagos State Governor, Bola Ahmed Tinubu loses the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential ticket. Babachir Lawal, former secretary to the government of the federation stated this when he led TSG to submit the APC presidential nomination forms on behalf of Tinubu at the Abuja International Conference Centre on Wednesday. Accompanied by Governor Babatunde Sanwo-Olu of Lagos state; James Faleke, member of the House of Representatives and other leaders of the TSG, Lawal also said the Tinubu group will support the winner of the ticket if he or she emerged through a fair process. He said: “Every politician should not be afraid of elections because the probability is two; either you win or lose. So, if we lose at the convention, we will go back home; leak our wounds and prepare to support the winner if he wins in a fair and fair manner. “We have come to submit the winning form and we have complied with one of the major requirements of the party for contesting for presidency on the platform of APC. We have done all that is required. “We have submitted all the documents that are required. As you can see, we have received our acknowledgement copy and we are confident that victory will be ours on 30th May during the convention.”
Read also: Tinubu losing grip of South-West Lawal stated that the resignation of ministers as directed by President Muhammadu Buhari and a large number of APC presidential aspirants was not a threat to Tinubu’s ambition. “How can it be a threat, the more the merrier. We are democrats and we believe that even if there are one million contestants on the platform of this party, we will carry the majority of the delegates at the convention. So, the more the merrier, they are all welcome. “We are 100% prepared. There are no challenges, we are politicians. We have been in this game for many years. Whatever challenges there are, we will convert them to opportunities,” he said. Tunde Bakare, general overseer of the Citadel Global Community Church who also submitted his nomination forms said he is trusting in God to emerge APC presidential flag bearer for 2023. Bakare said he has complied with all the rules of the game and requirements for the purchase and submission of the forms and asked the party to also play by the rules. He said: “Anyone who participates in a race must run according to the rules.
We have fulfilled our own side and it is now for the party to set the stage and to tell us what next. They will determine what next. “What I know for now is that there will be screening and after screening for those who may have appeal, they will appeal. Thereafter, there will be primaries and by the grace of God, we have decided to run according to the rules and we expect to win by His special grace. “My chances are as bright as that of any person. I am eminently qualified either by age or experience or everything that counts in this race.”