 Adamawa State: Governor Umaru Fintiri Kano State: Muhammad Abacha, son of former military leader, Sani Abacha. Plateau State: Caleb Mutfwang Bauchi State: Ibrahim Kassim, former secretary to Bauchi State government. Akwa Ibom State: Umo Eno, a former Commissioner for Lands and Water Resources in the state Kaduna State: Isah Ashiru Zamfara State: Dauda Lawal Oyo State: Governor Seyi Makinde Ogun State: Segun Sowunmi and Ladi Adebutu emerged as the winners in parallel primaries. Benue State: Titus Uba, Speaker of the Benue State House of Assembly Enugu State: Peter Mbah, a former Commissioner for Finance in Enugu State Abia State: Professor Eleazar Ikonne, Delta State: Sheriff Oborevwori, Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly Rivers State: Siminialayi Fubara, immediate past Account-General of the state Gombe State: Muhammad Barde Nasarawa State David Ombugadu Yobe State Sheriff Abdullahi, a former senatorial candidate Taraba State: Kefas Agbu, former PDP chairman Kwara State: Abdullah Yahman Borno State: Mohammed Jajari Taraba State Kefas Agbu ……………………. Enugu State: Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, Enugu North Senatorial District. Benue State: Governor Samuel Ortom Benue north-west Gombe State: Ibrahim Dankwambo, a former governor of Gombe State, Gombe North Senatorial District. Katsina State: Senator Ahmed Kaita, for Katsina North Shehu Garba Matazu, for Katsina South Sirajo Aminu Makera, for Katsina Central Senatorial Zone. Taraba State: Governor Darius Ishaku won Taraba South ticket Haruna Manu, deputy governor of Taraba, for Taraba Central Senatorial zone. Rivers State: Ipalibo Harry Banigo, deputy governor for Rivers West Senatorial District. Delta State: Chinedu Nwoko for Delta North Senatorial District Michael Diden for Delta South Ighoyota Amori for Delta Central senatorial district Kaduna State Lawal Adamu Usman, for Kaduna Central Senatorial Zone Ondo State Agboola Ajayi, former Ondo State deputy governor, Ondo South Senatorial district, Ifedayo Adedipe, for Ondo Central Senatorial District Read also: 2023: Makinde emerges Oyo PDP flagbearer Ogun State: Olumide Aderinokun, Ogun Central Senatorial District Cross River Ekpo Okon, former chairman of PDP for Southern Senatorial District Bassey Ewa for Central Senatorial District Sen. Agom Jarigbe for Northern Senatorial District